Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'content-type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': 'HIV, AIDS, Community, Residence, Association, ACRA, nonprofit, HIV/AIDS, housing, home, homes, apartment, apartments, organization, individuals living with HIV/AIDS, families living with HIV/AIDS, support, compassionate, specific AIDS service agency, help with housing'}
{'name': 'author', 'content': 'ACRA Durham'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'Founded in 1987, the AIDS Community Residence Association (ACRA) is a 501 (c) (3) nonprofit organization that serves individuals and families living with HIV/AIDS by providing diverse, supportive housing options and compassionate care. ACRA is a housing specific AIDS service agency; a survey by the Piedmont HIV Consortium has identified housing as the greatest and least met need of individuals and families living with HIV/AIDS.'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Joomla! - Open Source Content Management'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'initial-scale = 1.0, maximum-scale = 1.0, user-scalable = no, width = device-width'}

Body Text:
Welcome - ACRA - Affordable Community Residence Association
Welcome
Housing
Blevins Too
Fitts-Powell Apartments
FAQs
Links
How Can I Help?
These Have Helped!
Events
Past Events
Memories
About Us
Contact Us
ACRA Board
Affordable Community Residence Association
Durham NC
We are asking that persons who have not been vaccinated wear a mask when entering the office or engaging with our clients. Continue to follow the CDC's guidelines for social distancing in public.
Your understanding and compassionate care of others is what makes us great.
Visit the Triangle Community Foundation
Affordable and stable housing is one key to good health, but for many with HIV and disabilities, it’s out of reach.
We’re doing something about it. And you can help.
ACRA
, the Affordable (formerly AIDS) Community Residence Association, is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization founded in Durham, NC in 1987. Our mission is to provide diverse housing options, compassionate care, and access to collaborative support services for persons living with disabilities and HIV/AIDS so they can thrive in the community.
Why We Do What We Do
1 in 93 North Carolinians will be diagnosed with HIV
in their life time. This is the 11th highest risk in the 50 states and the District of Columbia.
CDC, 2015
More than 50%
of adults report homelessness or housing instability after their HIV diagnosis.
Aidala et al., Housing Need, Housing Assistance, and
Connection to Medical Care. AIDS & Behavior. 2007 11(6)/S2:S101-115.
Individuals without stable housing tend to have worse treatment outcomes
and poorer access to highly-active antiretroviral therapy (HAART).
Milloy et al., Housing Status and the Health of People Living with HIV/AIDS.
Curr HIV/AIDS Rep. 2012 December; 9(4):364-374.
Stable housing is essential for HIV prevention and treatment.
Our History
One of our founders, Nat Blevins
ACRA was started in 1987 by 6 individuals who wanted to provide housing for individuals who were living their final weeks and days with AIDS. Over the years, we have
served hundreds
of clients from all over the state of North Carolina and the Southeast.
We are thankful for the Durham community’s support.
Where We’re Going
Since our founding, a lot has changed
– in the Durham community and with HIV and AIDS. With access to HAART and high-quality health care, individuals with HIV are living longer than ever. This means that our clients have different needs: they need long-term housing and access to services that enable them to
make the most of life
– like counseling on healthy living, transportation services, and access to vision and dental care.
Recognizing how dramatically the world has changed, in 2017 we developed a
new strategic plan
. To broaden our reach, we now accept housing applications for individuals with disabilities other than HIV. In addition to providing affordable housing, in 2018 we will be launching a new program of support services for our residents to address their most urgent unmet needs.
But we won’t be able to do this without you.
How You Can Help
Volunteer
your time with us.
Advocate
for affordable housing in Durham.
Donate to our food bank.
Donate
your money.
Support our small staff.
Keep our facilities working.
Provide much-needed services to our clients.
Donate Now
Copyright © 2024 • Affordable Community Residence Association Durham NC. All Rights Reserved.
Mobile-friendly website design by
IYI Creative Services.
HP
