Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=UTF-8'}
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'og:site_name', 'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Alliance of Divine Love'}
{'name': 'twitter:image', 'property': 'twitter:image', 'content': 'https://us.simplerousercontent.net/uploads/asset/file/3293763/ADL-Site-Card.png'}
{'name': 'fb:pages', 'property': 'fb:pages', 'content': '183468643068'}
{'name': 'og:image', 'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://us.simplerousercontent.net/uploads/asset/file/3293763/ADL-Site-Card.png'}
{'name': 'og:type', 'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'property': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'name': 'og:title', 'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Alliance of Divine Love'}
{'name': 'twitter:title', 'property': 'twitter:title', 'content': 'Alliance of Divine Love'}
{'name': 'og:url', 'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.allianceofdivinelove.org/'}
{'name': 'twitter:url', 'property': 'twitter:url', 'content': 'https://www.allianceofdivinelove.org/'}
{'name': 'description', 'property': 'description', 'content': 'ADL trains and supports ministers to counsel, heal, teach and contribute to those in need and those seeking to awaken to their higher consciousnes...'}
{'name': 'og:description', 'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'ADL trains and supports ministers to counsel, heal, teach and contribute to those in need and those seeking to awaken to their higher consciousnes...'}
{'name': 'twitter:description', 'property': 'twitter:description', 'content': 'ADL trains and supports ministers to counsel, heal, teach and contribute to those in need and those seeking to awaken to their higher consciousnes...'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'noodp, noydir'}
{'name': 'csrf-param', 'content': 'authenticity_token'}
{'name': 'csrf-token', 'content': 'SefueHCVEihDhHOEdQvzZCdtXyXppj9192cpBc5drayJ_loBmLztqxj4tCUGKzrx1KasQ7OoOl0C5NS0Xo2LVQ'}

Body Text:
Home - Alliance of Divine Love
Please note: the office will be closed on Friday, May 24th and Monday, May 27th
Ministerial Program
Minister Training
Find a Mentor
About
About ADL
FAQ's
Founders' Story
ADL Chapters
ADL Social Media
ADL Symbols
Board of Trustees
Find a Minister
Blog
Courses
A Fresh Look at Meditation
An Introduction to Aramaic Toning: Chanting the Ancient Words of Yeshua
Course Submission Form
Donate
More...
Products
Newsletter
Content Submission Form
2023 Annual ADL Conference
Events Calendar
Submit Your Event
Course Submission Form
Prayer Request Form
Volunteer
My ADL Info
Support & FAQ
Contact Us
Join Our List
2024 Annual ADL Conference
Search
Log in
Become a Minister
2024 ADL Conference Rate Countdown...
REGISTER TODAY!
Rates increase after JUNE 15th!
00
days
00
hours
00
mins
00
secs
Prayer Request
Alliance of Divine Love
THE GREATEST DEGREE OF LOVE
The Alliance of Divine Love began long before you and I walked the earth;
indeed, before the Earth and universe were even formed.
All the joy, peace, and happiness that you have ever felt is Divine Love!
- Rev. Dr. Barbara Selwa, Founder
LEARN MORE
Celebrating Rev. Dr. Barbara Selwa
A recording of the service will be available to all as soon as the editing process is completed.
2023 ADL Conference Recordings
(Accessible through March 31, 2024)
Minister Training
Online Courses
Submit An Article
Submit An Event
Submit A Course
First Saturday of Each Month at 3:00pm - 4:00pm ET
ANGEL SQUAD GATHERINGS
Co Creating a New Earth
with Rev Dr. Bonnie Barnes-Kelley
All are welcome to join us for fellowship, conversation, prayer, meditation and an Angel Squad Journey!
Zoom Link
- https://us02web.zoom.us/j/88699194660
We are living in times of great transformation and awakening...
The New Earth is ours to create!
You are invited to join us every 1st Saturday at 3:00 pm ET, to share in the process and to give and receive healing to ourselves, each other and our Mother Earth.
All are welcome to participate!
First Saturday of Each Month at 3pm ET on ZOOM
JOIN US!
What We Do
Support your spiritual growth with ADL!
Ministerial Training
- Answer the call for Divine Service -
Led by certified ADL Ministerial Mentors
In-person or virtual (phone, email, etc.)
Nationally recognized ordination
Doctorate program (DDMS) available*
Learn more about ADL Ministerial Training
*must first complete the ADL Ministerial program to be eligible
Online Courses
- Courses for every level -
Personal Spiritual Development Courses
Go deeper into specific topics
Minister Continuing Education Courses
View ADL Courses
Live Events
- Various events to choose from -
Annual Conference
Regional Chapter Events
Online Events
See our Calendar
ADL is ideal for...
These are just
some
of the professional fields where ADL ministers are applying their training, working with the Greatest Degree of Love and uplifting souls.
Learn how to start
Life Coaches, Mentors & Teachers
Spiritual Counselors
Energy Workers
Human Resources Personnel
Wedding Chapel Owners/Managers
Spiritual Arts & Sciences Practitioners
ADL on Instagram
Recent Blogs
Here are a few recent blog posts you may enjoy.
May 16, 2024 11:56am
By ADL Office
Under
ADL News & Updates
1 min read
Another New Angel - Rev. Dr. Peggy Ann Whiddon
May 15, 2024
Dearest Ministers,
A beautiful Spirit, a joy to be around, our dear Rev. Dr. Peggy Ann Whiddon has made her transition. When I think of Peggy Ann, I see sparkles and glitter but mostly sunshine. Peggy Ann brought so much light to a room with her spiked purple hair, glitter eye shadow and sparkling personality. When Peggy Ann entered a room, the room lit up with her beautiful loving Fae energy.
Rev. Barbara Olin and her 3 daughters, Rev. Shelly Schreiber, Danelle and G…
Read more…
May 16, 2024 11:56am
By ADL Office
Under
ADL News & Updates
1 min read
May 10, 2024 08:39pm
By ADL Office
Under
Minister Articles
8 min read
Roger That...
by Rev. Estelle Thibodeau
April 29th, 2024
For Dr. Rev. Peg Gord, always listening…
Roger That…
I shouldn’t have been there. I hadn’t slept well. I was hungry, and I was too indifferent to do anything about that rumbling beast. The day was brilliant, summertime so thick, the blazing tar on the street shimmered upwards, The heat haze, a pestilent mirage, shifted on seesaws, back and forth; and then, “poof” into the solid, cloudless beaming blue sky.
I’ve got a CB Radio. I receive c…
Read more…
May 10, 2024 08:39pm
By ADL Office
Under
Minister Articles
8 min read
May 10, 2024 08:24pm
By ADL Office
Under
Minister Articles
2 min read
I Am Infinite Source Expressing
by Rev. Rita Scheibeck
I Am the calm and the quiet of Infinite Source expressing.
I Am the harmony and the peace of Infinite Source expressing.
I Am the helpfulness and the kindness of Infinite Source expressing.
I Am the creativity and the imagination of Infinite Source expressing.
I Am the wholeness and the dynamic health of Infinite Source expressing.
I Am the vitality and the strength of Infinite Source expressing.
I Am the prosperity and the fullness of Infinite Source expressing.
I A…
Read more…
May 10, 2024 08:24pm
By ADL Office
Under
Minister Articles
2 min read
See more
ADL Ministry
The Alliance of Divine Love, Inc. (ADL) is a federally recognized, Non-Profit 501(c)(3) interfaith ministry that embraces and seeks to live the Truth of Divine Love in the Greatest Degree.
ADL ministers offer their own individual expertise and knowledge to those seeking deeper spiritual meaning and growth using a broad spectrum of skills, backgrounds and ideas for spiritual development.
In a society riddled with divisiveness and fear, ADL is a bright light, promoting inclusiveness and love.
Read more about ADL
Help & Support
Did you know we have a whole section on the ADL website devoted to providing help and support for you?
Want to...
Change how many email notifications you are receiving from us?
Update your password?
Create an online course?
You can find instructions on how to do all of those and more under our ADL Support section.
Visit ADL Support
You can also access ADL Support on the main menu by going to:
More...
>
Support & FAQ
Office Hours: Monday through Friday - 10 am to 4:00 pm    Phone: 828-388-2102
TIP: Click the question mark icon in the bottom-right corner anywhere on the website to contact our support team.
Get in touch!
Name:
Email:
How can we serve you?
One more thing…
Your message has been sent. Thank you.
Become a Minister
Courses
Calendar
FAQ
Contact Us
Donate
Home
My ADL info
Terms and conditions
Privacy & cookie policy
Copyright © 2024
Alliance of Divine Love
·
PO Box 238
·
Flat Rock, NC 28731
·
United States
·
(+1) 828-388-2102
