Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge,chrome=1'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'name': 'apple-mobile-web-app-capable', 'content': 'yes'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileColor', 'content': '#da532c'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'twitter:site', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'twitter:title', 'content': 'New'}
{'name': 'twitter:description', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'twitter:image', 'content': ''}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': ''}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Home'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'AORN, the Association of periOperative Registered Nurses represents operating room nurses and those that facilitate management, teaching, and practice of perioperative nursing.'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.aorn.org'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Aorn.org'}
{'name': 'Generator', 'content': 'Sitefinity 15.0.8227.0 DX'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'AORN, the Association of periOperative Registered Nurses represents operating room nurses and those that facilitate management, teaching, and practice of perioperative nursing.'}

Body Text:
Home | AORN
Skip to main content
Do You Access Periop 101 from a learning platform outside of AORN?
View Important Notice.
»
The
AORN Guideline for Sterilization
is open for public commenting through June 13, 2024. »
This website uses cookies.
to enhance your browsing experience, serve personalized ads or content, and analyze our traffic. By clicking “Accept & Close”, you consent to our use of cookies. Read our
Privacy Policy
to learn more.
JOIN/RENEW
AORN Syntegrity
AORN Foundation
Pfiedler Education
Outpatient Surgery Magazine
Corporate Partnership
Periop Corner
Career Hub
AORN Journal
Store
My AORN
Log In
Earn 100 CH
Virtual Pass Open Through July 15.
Register for Virtual Pass Now
A Leader's Guide to Addressing Incivility
Live Panel Discussion on May 22.
Save My Seat
35 Guidelines & 6 Critical Updates
The foundational source of evidence-based guidelines needed in every OR.
Get the Guidelines
Join AORN as we share the story of surgical advancements, the evolution of nursing and improved patient outcomes.
Prepare for Success on the CNOR Exam
Prep for CNOR® Online is a self-paced course that helps to prepare you for success on the CNOR Exam and to support your professional development. Included with AORN Membership when joining or renewing.
Learn More
Join AORN
Spotlight on Education
Introducing
The Stitch
—an E-zine for New Periop Nurses
The Stitch
is brief, practical, and interactive with polls, videos, and games. It features clinical and professional tips, bite-sized learning and advice—an essential companion for the first few years of perioperative practice.
Stitch Me Up!
Get the ASC Administrator’s guide to effective operational management. Complete with customizable checklists & tools to help you meet regulatory requirements.
Developed by AORN’s expert perioperative nurses for new and returning labor and delivery nurses who participate in Cesarean section procedures, this hybrid course provides the necessary clinical foundation for safe surgical practice.
This online facility subscription provides access to the most current AORN Guidelines for Perioperative Practice and comes with a complete set of implementation tools and resources to empower your team to apply standardized techniques facility-wide.
3.5 CH, 3.5 AEU
A Guide to Governance provides ASC Leaders necessary training on governance, licensure, preparation for accreditation survey, and credentialing. This interactive course also includes various implementation tools, along with video-based instructions, to take the guesswork out of putting your knowledge into practice.
Periop 101: A Core Curriculum OR is the premier perioperative nurse education program for RNs entering the perioperative specialty.
Register for this foundational training designed for new ambulatory surgery administrators. Gain the executive and business skills required to run a successful ASC. Enroll by May 31, 2024 and get bonus tools to help navigate regulatory requirements for QAPI.
This course provides an overview of the anatomical and physiological differences between children and adults and reviews the developmental stages that establish the basis for safe care. Learners will be able to use knowledge from this course to formulate an age-appropriate plan of care throughout the perioperative process.
4.5 CH, 4.5 AEU, 3 IPCH
This interactive course is the ambulatory surgery center (ASC) leader's go-to resource for navigating the annual ASC Quality Reporting submission, which is vital to the success of your surgery center.
Using evidence-based guidelines, AORN defines the standards that help keep healthcare workers and surgical patients safe – while also providing education and resources to support high-quality care.
AORN Governance
A 12-member Board of Directors, chosen from and elected by the membership, are responsible for the strategic vision and financial sustainability of AORN.
Members also are elected to the National Nominating Committee, which approves candidates for the ballot.
Nominate a colleague or yourself for the 2024-2025 term before the May 3rd deadline.
Periop Life
In this week’s Periop Life entry, OR manager Hannah Shufeldt, DNP, MSHCM, RN, CNOR, shares her journey in transforming counting practices at her facility.
This week’s Periop Life shares 5 lessons to help nurses gain the confidence to provide transgender-competent care.
Become a Corporate Sponsor
Exhibit, sponsor, and reach highly engaged attendees at the
largest surgical conference in the world
Implement targeted advertising to strategically connect with the largest perioperative database in the U.S.
Strategically support face-to-face events, education, and guideline resources
Gather first-hand insight on your products or services from perioperative professionals who use them every day
AORN Distinguished Awards and Recognition
AORN is honored to receive a
Diversity, Equity & Inclusion (DEI) award from the Denver Business Journal
.
We have been recognized as a
“Top Workplace” by The Denver Post
, and our employee engagement scores are consistently in the highest category.
Association of periOperative Registered Nurses
2170 South Parker Rd, Suite 400,
Denver
CO
80231
Become an AORN Partner
Connect with our more than 44,000 AORN Members through advertising, exhibits, sponsorships, and more!
Partner With AORN
AORN Enterprise
AORN Syntegrity
AORN Foundation
Pfiedler Education
Outpatient Surgery Magazine
Quick Links
About AORN
Contact AORN
Periop Corner
AORN Journal
Why AORN
Work at AORN
Shop AORN
Career Center
ORNL
©
AORN Inc. All Rights Reserved.
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
