Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'content-type', 'content': 'text/html', 'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 6.5.3'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://sites.duke.edu/experienceopportunities/files/2023/01/cropped-IE-Square-270x270.jpg'}

Body Text:
Durham, NC – Audacity Labs – Internships – I&E Experience Opportunities
Skip to the content
I&E Experience Opportunities
Toggle mobile menu
Toggle search field
Search for:
Home
Post Your Opportunity Here
Home
Post Your Opportunity Here
Durham, NC – Audacity Labs – Internships
June 18, 2020
/
Anna Jacobs
Audacity Labs is an innovation incubator and after-school program for teens, where teams of high school student entrepreneurs work together to conceive, develop, and launch new ventures. We offer a working space, connections, and a structured program of content and coaching. Through an entrepreneurial curriculum, series of field trips, and constant support from both undergraduate students and successful individuals from around the Triangle, Audacity Labs seeks to provide high school students with the opportunity to participate in the entrepreneurial spirit that is permeating Durham, Raleigh, and Chapel Hill.
1.   DETAILS
A.     HOURS
i.         8 hours a day (not including 1-hour lunch break)
ii.         All national holidays off. Meetings can be remote.
iii.         June 8 – Aug 14
B.     SUPERVISORS
i.         Quinci King – B.A. ‘20
ii.         Manuel Hernandez – B.A. ‘20
iii.         Matt Nash — Managing Director for Social Entrepreneurship
C.     LOCATION
i.         ReCity
1.     Durham Co-Working space focused on social impact.
2.   Positions
A.     Curriculum Developer
i.         Work alongside the executive team and I&E department to create summer and full schoolyear programming. These are two timeframes that are more extensive than Audacity Labs has ever catered to before, so we are looking to hire someone to build out our entrepreneurship focused curriculum. This is the core of Audacity Labs, and you will have a massive job shaping the experience of our student participants.
ii.         Tasks
1.     Transform Audacity Labs’ curriculum as we look to expand to more students over the summer and the next year.
2.     Plan field trips, workshops and speeches from influential figures in the start-up community in the Triangle in an attempt to educate students on the diversity, entrepreneurship, and history of Durham.
3.     Work with past Audacity Labs participants to receive feedback regarding how to optimize the program’s reach, impact, and success as we attempt to provide more offerings outside of typical business skills.
B.     Fundraising and External Relations
i.         As a nonprofit, fundraising and external relations are very important. From grant writing to attending community partner meetings to interacting with sponsors, this role is vital for the health and success of Audacity Labs. In this role, you will be responsible for helping obtain the resources, whether physical, monetary, or otherwise, that will allow Audacity Labs to provide the best experience for a diverse set of individuals.
ii.         Tasks
1.     Work with the Executive Director to create a database of grants and timelines for the entire grant writing process while maintaining a Grant Calendar which shows when a grant application and/or report is due.
2.     Work with coaches, mentors, and students to identify areas of needs where a grant would help solve a problem or fill a need.
3.     Attend community and volunteer events with Audacity Labs to share information with attendees about what we do and how to get involved.
4.     Create and implement outreach strategies that engage corporate and community sponsors to want to engage with Audacity Labs
3.   Qualifications
i.         Current enrollment status as a freshman, sophomore, or junior undergraduate student at Duke University
ii.         A GPA of 3.2 or higher
iii.         An extreme passion for innovation, entrepreneurship, and teamwork
iv.         Experience in leadership roles, team management, and/or prior classroom experience with Durham High School students
v.         Exceptional problem-solving, organizational, and communication skills (verbal and written), as well as attention to detail
vi.         Ability to multitask and work independently, as well as will team members to collectively meet proposal deadlines
vii.         Proficiency using Adobe PDF and Microsoft Office
viii.         Availability to work for the dates provided above and located in Durham
Internships
,
Opportunities Outside of Duke
,
Raleigh/Durham/Chapel Hill
,
Social Innovation Opportunities
,
Startups
Previous post
New York – AlphaSights – Associate Program
Next post
RDU Area – Research Triangle Cleantech Cluster – Analyst
© 2024
I&E Experience Opportunities
Theme by
Anders Noren
—
Up ↑
Sites@Duke Express
is powered by WordPress. Read the Sites@Duke Express
policies
and
FAQs
, or
request help
.
