Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'Our Community, Our Responsibility'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'itemprop': 'name', 'content': 'Believers United for Progress'}
{'itemprop': 'url', 'content': 'https://www.believersunitedforprogress.org/'}
{'content': 'https://www.believersunitedforprogress.org/?s={s}', 'itemprop': 'target'}

Body Text:
Believers United for Progress – Our Community, Our Responsibility
Believers United for Progress
Our Community, Our Responsibility
Welcome
About Us
Staff and Board
Our Vision
Mission Statement
Non-Profit Status
Programs
Programs for Kids
Academic and Vocational Schooling
Books for Kids
Child Adult Care Food Program (CACFP)
HYPE
Summer Food Service Program (SFSP)
Vocational Training
Programs for Families
Adopt a Family
Family Fun Festival/Skating Parties
Food Distribution
Housing and Development
Community Programs
The HOPE Center
Operation Clean Sweep
Outreach Dinners
Senior Meal Assistance
Urban Ministries
Community Kitchen
Take Action
Become a Volunteer
Board Member Recruitment
Calendar
Partners
Gallery
Contact Us
Our Community, Our Responsibility
Believers United for Progress, a grassroots organization, was formed through the community restaurant New Visions of Africa, and the spirit that lives within us. Our mindset when we established this organization was “What can we do to bring dignity and respect back to our communities?” We work to sustain and maintain our communities through social contact.
Believers United for Progress has sponsored community dinners and outreach services to help families become self-sufficient in and around the HAYTI area in Durham, North Carolina. The organization has actively worked in the community, providing services for free and has been open to the public since July 2004. It was incorporated into North Carolina as a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization on February 27, 2007.
One question we ask of ourselves and others is, when G-d blessed one, who did He bless? The answer is always the same, “Everyone”.  We all need to tap into our internal spirit and bring out those blessings and spread them.
Believers United for Progress (BUFP) believes our community consists of the human family. We embrace every demographic! All are welcome to our events and eligible for our programs. Our goal is to help all people who are in need, within our capacity.
We at BUFP work collectively toward a common goal and purpose. Unity will always be the focus for successfully creating and maintaining stable and healthy communities and families.
The members of BUFP are of diverse religious backgrounds, not holding or discriminating one faith over another. Although we come from different faiths, we know that all faiths have more in common than they do not. All faiths encourage betterment of self, community and world.
Connect With Us!
Donate to Our Programs
Copyright © 2024 · Believers United for Progress  ·
Privacy Policy
