Meta Information:
{'name': 'Author', 'content': 'Ray Carter'}
{'name': 'Keywords', 'content': 'Black Hawk Rifle Club, smallbore rifle shooting, prone rifle, shooting'}
{'name': 'Description', 'content': 'The website of the Black Hawk Rifle Club, Inc.'}

Body Text:
Home Page
History
Trophies
Photos
Black Hawk Open
City of Birmingham
Postal Match
Historical Articles
Members Only
Contact Us
About Us
The Black Hawk Rifle Club, Inc. was organized in February 1936 by a group of smallbore rifle shooters at the 
						University of Chicago.  The original name was the Blackhawk Rifle Club.  A letter was sent to the NRA on 
						May 8, 1936 seeking NRA Club status.  The club was later incorporated on March 25, 1940 by the State of Illinois 
						as Black Hawk Rifle Club, Inc.
Today the Black Hawk Rifle Club is one of the most prestigious smallbore rifle clubs in America.  The club claims 
						numerous National, World and Olympic Champions among its members.  Its shooters are well represented at 
						such competitions as the NRA National Smallbore Rifle Championships each year.  Indeed, 
						the club is usually well represented by members on the Randle Team, the Dewar Team, the Pershing Team, 
						the Lord Earl Roberts Team and the Wakefield and Drew 
						Cups.
Over the years the club has expanded to include members from across the USA and even some  in the British Isles 
						and Australia.  The club also hosts the annual Black 
						Hawk Open Smallbore Rifle  Match on 
						Memorial Day Weekend each year.  Club meetings are held each year at the Black Hawk Open and 
						during the NRA National Smallbore Rifle Prone Championships.
Here is a list of the
Black Hawk Rifle Club Honor Roll
.  They are deceased members who helped promote
competitive shooting through teaching and coaching,
organizing and working matches and helping
other shooters.
'A Short History of the Black Hawk Rifle Club-the First 75 Years' by Hap Rocketto guides readers through the first three 				quarters of a century of one of the most prestigious smallbore rifle clubs in America  the Black Hawk Rifle Club.
The book is available for purchase online and shipped directly to your door for $12.56 plus shipping at 
http://www.blurb.com/bookstore/detail/2301175.
All profits are to be divided evenly between the Black Hawk Club and 
Pronematch.com to help support their efforts in promoting smallbore rifle competition.
For additional information contact:
Black Hawk Rifle Club, Inc.
Edie Fleeman, Secretary
5000 Mandel Road
Durham, NC  27712
Email
blackhawkrifleclub@gmail.com
