Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'index, follow, max-image-preview:large, max-snippet:-1, max-video-preview:-1'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'Let us help you find funding, structure your enterprise, or give legal advice that’s right for you to become a co-op.'}
{'property': 'og:locale', 'content': 'en_US'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Start a co-op and co-op conversions | Carolina Common Enterprise'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'Let us help you find funding, structure your enterprise, or give legal advice that’s right for you to become a co-op.'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.commonenterprise.coop/'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Carolina Common Enterprise'}
{'property': 'article:modified_time', 'content': '2022-02-28T22:04:24+00:00'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Site Kit by Google 1.124.0'}

Body Text:
Start a co-op and co-op conversions | Carolina Common Enterprise
Skip to content
Menu
Services
Success Stories
Our Team
Contact Us
Learning
Zero to Co-op
eNewsletter
Invest in Community
better
community
better
business
build
a
co-op
Better community.
Better business.
Build a co-op!
good for you,
good for
your
community
.
Cooperative enterprises are solutions for community development. That’s why Carolina Common Enterprise (CCE) focuses on co-ops that address unemployment, poverty and other issues struggling small, rural and urban communities face across the Southeast.
Get to know the experts
who can help your co-op startup get off the ground.
there’s a
better way
to do
business
.
Employee-owned enterprises bring — and keep — quality jobs in rural, small and urban communities. When employees are literally invested in a company’s success, that business is stronger. Cooperative enterprises also tend to give back directly by investing locally.
Whether you want to start a co-op or convert an existing business into a cooperative enterprise, let us guide you through the process. We’ll work with you to find funding sources, build a structure for your enterprise, provide legal advice that’s right for you, and more.
Find out what we can do for you.
preserve your legacy,
sustain
your community
Electric Violin Shop
Blaise Kielar is the founder and former owner of Electric Violin Shop (EVS) in Durham, North Carolina, a small company which does business globally.
The shop is known for being a top source of high-quality amplification gear and expertise for bowed string instrument players since 1978.
When Blaise was ready to retire, he sold his ownership interest in the business to three longtime employees. They restructured EVS into a worker-owned cooperative.
Learn how
other businesses have worked with CCE
to preserve their legacies by becoming co-ops.
“As employees it’s exciting not only to take ownership but also to be able to extend cooperative owner-membership to new employees as our company expands. Thomas Beckett, executive director at Carolina Common Enterprise, was instrumental in guiding the early co-op formation and connecting us with lenders.”
– Chris Guin, Electric Violin Shop
take the first step!
Schedule a free consultation
919-246-9929
query@commonenterprise.coop
upcoming events
We enjoy sharing information about cooperative enterprises. You’ll find us presenting and participating in local and national events. Come find us and chat about the positive impact co-ops make.
No events currently
.
news and announcements
Interships!
Paying it forward is a big part of what we do! We provide meaningful paid  internships to grow the future of co-ops.
If you’re a college student interested in working in cooperative development,
let us know
.
Carolina Common Enterprise
Carolina Common Enterprise
919-246-9929 |
query@commonenterprise.coop
office hours:
monday - friday, 8:30 a.m. - 5:30 p.m.
Facebook icon
Twitter icon
Contact Us
|
Legal
|
Media
©2019 Carolina Common Enterprise. All rights reserved.
Member of:
Cooperative Council of North Carolina
CooperationWorks!
National Cooperative Business Association
Services
Success Stories
Our Team
Contact Us
Learning
▼
Zero to Co-op
eNewsletter
Invest in Community
