Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}

Body Text:
Chicago Video Project recordings
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Side Bar
Skip to Footer
Search
Collections
Programs
Summer Short-term Fellowship
Archie Motley Archival Internship Program
Color Curtain Processing Project
Survey Initiative
News
About
About the BMRC
Membership Information
Current Members
Partnerships
Board & Committees
Staff
Resources
Archives Awareness
Legacy Management Resource Portal
Protest in the Archives
Workshops
Jobs and Opportunities
Contact
Support Us
Site Search
Finding Aid Search
Search
Research Help
Black Metropolis Research Consortium Main Page
BMRC ARCHIVES PORTAL
Chicago Video Project recordings
Contents
Descriptive Summary
Cited Sources
Biographical Note
Processing Information note
Restrictions
Scope and Contents note
Preferred Citation note
Indexed Terms
Collection Access
9525 S. Halsted Street, Chicago, IL 60628
View hours and access information for the CPL Vivian G. Research collections.
Chicago Video Project recordings
Descriptive Summary
Title
Chicago Video Project recordings
Identifier
BMRC.HARSH.CVP
Repository
Chicago Public Library, Vivian G. Harsh Research Collection, Woodson
                    Regional library
Language
English
Size
4.75 Linear feet
235 videotapes, mini-DV format
Dates
2001-2009
Creator
Chicago Video Project
Abstract
The Chicago Video Project is a Chicago-based video production company focused on
                projects concerning advocacy groups, community development organizations, labor
                unions, and economic and social justice. This collection of recordings includes 235
                videotapes created for the co-production of "Telling Our Story” by the Chicago
                Video Project and the Central Advisory
                Council of Chicago Public Housing Residents. The tapes are a moving footage record, recorded 
                between 2003 and 2009, of the redevelopment of
                public housing properties in Chicago, primarily at Cabrini Green and Stateway
                Gardens, and concerns the impact on residents
                    of the Chicago Housing Authority's 15 year "Plan for Transformation."
Language of Materials note
Materials entirely in
                English.
Cited Sources
American Idealist: The Story of Sargent Shriver. “About the Producer.” Accessed
                November 14, 2012. http://www.americanidealistmovie.com/bruce.htm
Chicago Video Project. “Home.” Accessed November 9, 2012.
                chicagovideo.com
Biographical Note
In 1990, The Chicago Video Project was founded in Chicago by Bruce Orenstein as a
                501C-3 non-profit video production company. The project produces documentaries and
                public policy videos about social and economic issues for public television and
                non-profit public interest organizations. The Chicago Video Project’s mission
                statement is to, “bring the power of video to advocacy groups, community development
                organizations, labor unions, foundations, and others across the country working to
                promote social and economic justice.” Bruce Orenstein is executive director of
                Chicago Video Project and oversees its advocacy and organizing video projects.
In 2000, Chicago Housing Authority announced that 100,000 public housing residents
                were to be displaced through the Chicago Housing Authority’s “Plan for
                Transformation” project. Chicago Video Project was contacted by the Chicago Housing
                Authority to produce a moving footage record of the “Plan for Transformation”
                project and to develop and produce an educational film about the relocation process
                for public housing residents. In 2002, The Chicago Video Project applied for a grant
                to work on the Plan for Transformation project and received a MacArthur Foundation
                Grant in 2003 and extended in 2006. The film, titled “Telling Our Story,” intended
                to focus on the Chicago Housing Authority properties of Henry Horner Homes, Stateway
                Gardens, Cabrini Green, and Madden/Wells.
“Telling Our Story” was directed by Bill Glader and produced by Susan Rohrback and
                can be viewed in full on the Chicago Video Project’s web site at
                http://chicagovideo.com/videos/
Processing Information note
Processed by CLIR funded Black Metropolis Research Consortium “Color Curtain
                Processing Project.” Processors: Emily Minehart and Beth Loch.
This collection was surveyed as part of the Black Metropolis Research Consortium's
                Survey Initiative on 2010 November 17 by Andrew Steadham.
Restrictions
The collection is restricted due to an inability to view mini-DV videotapes on current
                equipment. Descriptive inventories of the material are included with the collection.
                Contact archivist for more information.
Scope and Contents note
The Chicago Video Project Recordings includes 235 mini-DV videotapes created by Chicago
                Video Project to document the Chicago Housing Authority’s “Plan for Transformation.”
                The film,
Telling Our Story
, used raw footage primarily from the properties at
                Cabrini Green and
Stateway Gardens
to document the redevelopment of public housing
                in Chicago. The tapes consist primarily of interviews of residents and Chicago
                Housing Authority personnel, as well as Housing and Urban Development staff and
                local politicians. The films also include tours of the public housing projects,
                footage and interviews of displaced residents, Stateway working group meetings, town
                hall meetings, and meetings with local politicians such as Toni Preckwinkle,
                then-Senator Barack Obama, and Senator Dick Durbin. Some interviews are recorded by
                WBEZ and including footage of meetings in Washington D.C. The tapes also cover the
                demolition of the public housing buildings as well as annual Stateway Community Day
                festivities.
The collection focuses closely on one resident in particular who was displaced from
                Stateway Gardens to the mixed-income housing at Park Boulevard; the resident viewed
                the “Plan for Transformation” as an opportunity to improve his standard of living.
                Also documented are the people connected to the “Plan for Transformation” as it
                unfolded downtown and in other parts of the city, such as Chicago Housing Authority
                Relocation Director Homer Gary.
The bulk of the tapes were filmed between 2003 and 2009. The collection is organized
                by a numbering system assigned by the Chicago Video Project. Two separate
                inventories of the collection are available for review. The “Original Chicago Video
                Project Inventory” document contains the detailed inventory of the collection and was
                provided by Chicago Video Project when the collection was originally donated. Note
                that tapes 3-8 are missing from the collection but are described in the “Original
                Chicago Video Project Inventory.” Additionally, 26 tapes included in the donation
                were not included in the “Original Chicago Video Project Inventory.” A separate
                inventory for these tapes was created, entitled “Additional Inventory.”
Preferred Citation note
When quoting material from this collection the preferred citation is: Chicago Video
                Project recordings [Box #, Folder #], Vivian G. Harsh Research Collection of
                Afro-American History and Literature, Chicago Public Library.
Indexed Terms
Durbin, Richard J. (Richard
                Joseph), 1944-
Orenstein, Bruce
Preckwinkle, Toni Reed,
                1947-
Chicago Video Project
Gentrification--Illinois--Chicago.
Henry Horner Homes (Chicago, Ill.)
Housing projects, Government
Public housing--Illinois--Chicago
Urban Development
Chicago Housing Authority. Central Advisory
                Council
Chicago Housing Authority. Plan for
                Transformation
Chicago (Ill.)--Social conditions
Cinéma vérité films
About the Portal
Curated Topics
Newsletter Signup
Research Help
Support the BMRC
Contact
|
Jobs
Black Metropolis Research Consortium
1100 E. 57th St., 2nd Floor, Room 203, Chicago, IL 60637
