Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'name': 'google-site-verification', 'content': 'TVdg5S34NOQ7ngUgvZg5A3DBt3eunRYuXzrAG0OJpDE'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress.com'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Community Chest'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'A Center for Resources...A Catalyst for Change.'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://communitychestnevada.net/'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Community Chest'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://communitychestnv.files.wordpress.com/2017/03/cropped-orginallogo.jpg?w=200'}
{'property': 'og:image:width', 'content': '200'}
{'property': 'og:image:height', 'content': '200'}
{'property': 'og:image:alt', 'content': ''}
{'property': 'og:locale', 'content': 'en_US'}
{'name': 'theme-color', 'content': '#fffdf9'}
{'name': 'application-name', 'content': 'Community Chest'}
{'name': 'msapplication-window', 'content': 'width=device-width;height=device-height'}
{'name': 'msapplication-tooltip', 'content': 'A Center for Resources...A Catalyst for Change.'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'A Center for Resources...A Catalyst for Change.'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://communitychestnv.files.wordpress.com/2017/03/cropped-orginallogo.jpg?w=270'}

Body Text:
Community Chest – A Center for Resources…A Catalyst for Change.
Skip to content
Community Chest
A Center for Resources…A Catalyst for Change.
Menu
Home
About Us
Our Staff
Board Members
CCI’s Annual Poem
Health Services Hub of Storey and Lyon Counties
Community Chest Careers
Internship Opportunities
Past Intern Spotlight
Past Interns
Annual Report & Financial Disclosures
Privacy & Non-Discrimination Statements
Programs
Comstock Kids & VC SOARS
Mental Health & Substance Use Counseling
Medical Services
Victim Services & Domestic Violence Advocate
Employment Assistance
Classroom On Wheels (COW Bus)
Home Visiting Program
Displaced Homemaker Program
Case Management
Health and Wellness Hub
Programmatic “Guiding Stars”
Technical Assistance & Non-Profit Advocacy Training
New Programs
Supporters
Social Justice Conference
2019 Statewide THRIVE Conference
2018 Statewide THRIVE Conference
2017 Statewide THRIVE Conference
2014 Lyon County
2013 Las Vegas
2012 Reno
2011 Reno
Social Justice Toolkit
Contact Us
Escape
Storey County Community Library
Childcare Development Project – Storey County
Featured
1 Comment
Community Chest, Inc. is excited to have the opportunity to expand childcare in Storey County! We are currently requesting proposals from contractors to help us with this project. Please see below for project information.
20231130142217689-3
Download
ADMINISTRATOR OF THE YEAR!
Featured
Leave a comment
Domestic Violence Awareness Month!
Featured
Leave a comment
It’s Domestic Violence Awareness Month!
Shout out to our DV TEAM!!
Thank you to our amazingly dedicated DV team for constantly going above and beyond for their clients and their community! We are so lucky to have you as part of our CCI family!!
Now Hiring!
Featured
Leave a comment
Please head over to our Community Chest Careers Tab to apply!
Nevada Humanities Literary Crawl
Featured
Leave a comment
Nevada Humanities Literary Crawl
September 10th In Reno!
Click on the poster below to check out their full schedule of events!
You don’t wanna miss this!
Rural Nevada Early Childhood Conference
Featured
Leave a comment
August Employee of the month!
Featured
Leave a comment
Breana has been with us here at CCI for almost 3 years, she works in out early childhood education center. Here is what a few of her pod mates and supervisor had to say about her and the amazing work she is doing!
1. She is always involved with the kiddos creating relationships and memories these kids will remember for years down the road.
2. She is always willing to help out, you give her a task and she can get it done!
3. The love she has for her work/kids is indescribable.
4. Her creativity and connection with each family is just amazing!
5. Even on her roughest days her happy place is with the kids!
Congratualtions Breana!
Keep up the great work!!!
The Mammovan Returns
Featured
Leave a comment
The Mammovan is a not-for-profit mobile imaging unit offering state-of-the-art mammograms all across the State of Nevada, for over 22 years.
**
Parked at the Silverland Hotel parking lot!
**
(Location moved due to technical difficulties. No longer at the community health center)
NOW HIRING!
Featured
Leave a comment
Head over to our careers page to apply.
The Life Change Center
Featured
Leave a comment
A podcast about Strengthening Rural Nevada
In this two part show, The Life Change Center sits down with our very own Erik Schoen, the Executive Director of Community Chest serving rural Nevada. Erik sheds light on the valuable tools available to every individual to learn emotional and spiritual grown and internal self-development; and how learning about these tools was so impactful in his own life. He shares how addiction is impacting rural Nevada; how every rural county in Nevada is experiencing a shortage in health care providers; the need to develop home grown talent in the way of community health workers and peer support specialist; and how Community Chest is doing that. We also discuss how Covid brought about the importance of investing in emotional and mental health, and the increased need for these services brought about by Covid.
Part 1~ Click on the link below to be directed to the podcast audio.
Strengthening Rural Nevada – Part 1 (Episode 12)
Storey County Community Library
Featured
Leave a comment
July 2022 Newsletter
Hiring!
January 9, 2024
Leave a comment
CCI Family Night!
February 10, 2023
Leave a comment
Our first family night since covid.
If you don’t know what Family Night is, it’s a dinner our youth programs used to have monthly. The goal is to have the program kids and their parents come, enjoy food and do projects together.
Well, last night we opened up our doors to
122 PEOPLE
! Between the before/after school program, ECE and infant center, over 100 of our kids, parents, and family members enjoyed yummy tacos (the theme was Taco ‘Bout Love!), fun valentines day projects, a bike raffle that raised $140 for the youth programs, and a random dance party!
We were so happy to see all of our families enjoying themselves!
We can’t wait for next month!
Senior Day
February 6, 2023
November 30, 2023
Leave a comment
WNC is hosting a Volunteer Fair on Feb. 16 & 23, from 9am until 11:30am, at Western Nevada College. It is an awesome opportunity for students to schedule volunteer hours that are needed for receiving the NV Promise Scholarship. Check out the flyer below for more details.
Posts navigation
Older posts
Search for:
Like What You See?
Every little bit helps.
If you can help us by donating, please click on the link below.
Thank you!
SUPPORT COMMUNITY CHEST WITH AMAZON SMILE!
When you shop at smile.amazon.com, Amazon donates. Select Community Chest as your Amazon Smile charity, shop as you normally do, and Amazon will donate 0.5% of the price of your eligible Amazon Smile purchases to Community Chest!
Make sure to bookmark the link, and to always shop at smile.amazon.com. Click the link to start shopping!
https://smile.amazon.com/ch/88-0266600
Like us on Facebook!
Like us on Facebook!
Virginia City Administrative Office
991 S C St.
Virginia City, NV 89440
775-847-9311
Monday - Friday: 9am-5pm
FOOD CLOSET:
Monday-Friday, 11am-3pm
Virginia City Youth & Community Resource Center
175 East Carson St.
Virginia City, NV 89440
775-847-9311
STOREY COUNTY COMMUNITY LIBRARY:
Monday-Thursday, 10am-5pm
NEVADA HEALTH CENTERS CLINIC:
Mondays 1pm-4pm
Wednesdays 8:30am-4pm
(closed noon-1pm for lunch)
Call 1.800.787.2568 for appointments. Walk-ins also accepted.
COUNSELING AND CASE MANAGEMENT:
Monday-Friday, 9am-5pm or by appointment
Fernley Office
415 US Hwy 95A S.
Building D
Fernley, NV 89408
775-847-9311
COUNSELING AND CASE MANAGEMENT:
Monday-Thursday, 9am-5pm or by appointment
Dayton office
401 Dayton Valley Rd., Suite A
Dayton, NV 89403
775-847-9311
By appointment only.
Facebook
Youtube
A WordPress.com Website
.
Subscribe
Subscribed
Community Chest
Join 29 other subscribers
Sign me up
Already have a WordPress.com account?
Log in now.
Community Chest
Customize
Subscribe
Subscribed
Sign up
Log in
Report this content
View site in Reader
Manage subscriptions
Collapse this bar
Loading Comments...
Write a Comment...
Email (Required)
Name (Required)
Website
