Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://commotionnc.org/wp-content/uploads/2018/05/cropped-Social-Media-Profile-Photo-Tagline-e1527456072377-270x270.png'}

Body Text:
ComMotion – Community In Motion
Skip to content
ComMotion
Community In Motion
Home
ComMotion en Español
Biblioteca Madre
Who We Serve
Cancer Survivors
Veterans
Kids
Adaptive Dance and Movement
About Us
News
Volunteer and Training Opportunities
Sponsors
Support Us
Contact Us
Community in Motion
Experience a better world through movement
Support ComMotion
com·​mo·​tion:
From the Latin, “Com”, meaning All Together & “
Motio
” meaning Movement
ComMotion
– Community in Motion builds community and improves well being through adaptive and inclusive movement.
We provide people of all walks of life the opportunity to engage in fun activities that will stimulate the mind, body and soul.  Our unique multi-sensory programs have reached, inspired, and moved more than 35,000 people from around the world.
PreK ~ School Day ~ After School
Click Here for More Information
Upcoming Events
Inclusive Dance & Movement for Veterans
Durham, NC
2-3pm Eastern Time
Mondays
May 20,
June 24,
July 22,
August 26,
September 23, 2024
Register Here
An Exploration of Latin America for Military Veterans & Families
Online
June 4, 2024
7pm Eastern Time
Register Here
Inclusive Martial Arts & Self Defense Workshop
Charlotte, NC
June 13, 2024
430-630pm Eastern Time
Register Here
Biblioteca Madre Project
Educational collaboration with artists from Latin America.
We are seeking schools and youth organizations to participate in this FREE program
.
The Education and Culture Program is supported by funding from the U.S. Department of State and implemented by Partners of the Americas in partnership with the Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs.
Click Here for More Information
Presione para Español
WHY?
It’s a great form of low impact exercise, adaptable for people of all abilities. It improves strength, flexibility, balance, posture & coordination
It improve fatigue, anxiety, depression, self-esteem, happiness, and quality of life.
Dancing is the only physical activity to offer protection against dementia
Our kids’ programs explore cultures from around the world as well as Social and Emotional Learning competencies, including self awareness, social awareness, and relationship skills.
HOW?
In-person
Programs are completely portable & adaptable to nearly any space and size of group, indoors and out
We teach in schools, senior centers, libraries, hospitals, churches, parks, and more
Live online
Join us live via Zoom (and other platforms) from the comfort of home and enjoy the immersive experience of our green screen technology
Friends and family are welcome to join
Captions are available
On-demand video
Enjoy our programming on your own schedule through our on-demand videos
Participants only need a few feet of space around them and can join in either standing or seated
All programs are available in English and Spanish, including audio language and subtitles.
WHO?
Our programs are designed for all ages and abilities.
We have programs for cancer survivors, military veterans, kids, seniors, and the whole community
Classes are open to individuals and families as well as groups and organizations.
Contact us about creating a custom program for you!
WHEN & WHERE?
Check out our event calendar to enroll in our on-going classes
Contact us to set up a custom program for your group or organization, either at your location or virtually
Our virtual classes allow you to connect from anywhere in the world!
Our sponsors include:
ComMotion is the recipient of the 2023 NC Peace Prize
Join our mailing list
*
indicates required
Email Address
*
First Name
*
Last Name
*
Subscribe to our YouTube channel
See videos of classes, events, and more!
Click Here
Support our programs
ComMotion is able to provide programs at little or no cost thanks to the generous support of the community.
Make a Donation
Contact Us
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Copyright © 2024 ComMotion — Stout WordPress theme by
GoDaddy
