Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Home'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.cornerstoneconnections.net/'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': ''}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://www.cornerstoneconnections.net/'}
{'name': 'google-site-verification', 'content': 'A8MEggib5ckID6XENXg4uk1so8HAR9QUP4rnK_rR4i0'}

Body Text:
Cornerstone Connections | Home
Seventh Day Adventist Logo
This is an official website of the Seventh-day Adventist Church.
Learn More about Adventists
.
Menu
About Us
Lessons
Archives
For Teachers
Teaching Teen Sabbath School
Rabbi 101
Teacher's Guide
For Students
Student Bible Lessons
About the Bible study lessons
Resources
Conflict of the Ages companion books
Living It
Sitemap
Contact
Search
Submit
Cornerstone Connections Lessons
Weekly online lessons for teens (aged 15-18) made available and downloadable as PDFs.
Find Out More
Lots of resources to explore!
Find Out More
About Us
Cornerstone Connections is the Sabbath School Bible Study Guide developed for high school teens in the Sabbath School department at the General Conference of the Seventh-day Adventist Church.
Find Out More
Left arrow icon
Right arrow icon
From the Editor
Dear students, parents, and teachers,
Welcome to the online site of the Sabbath School Bible Study Guides for teens! Here you can have access to additional resources that you may use to help in your Bible study and preparation for Sabbath School. Our goal is to help you grow in your relationship with Jesus!
The student resources that you can access on this site include: digital files of the
Sabbath School lessons
, the audiobook and e-book versions of the modern-language adaptation of the
books in the Conflict of the Ages series
, as well as a number of additional resources linked to this website.
Teachers and Sabbath School instructors are encouraged to use the resources in the
Teacher's Guide
, the
Rabbi 101
toolkit of teaching tips, as well as additional reference materials for
study
and
training
. Use these to enhance the Sabbath School Bible Study experience for the students in your class.
May God bless you in your journey that you may grow closer in your friendship with Jesus Christ!
Cornerstone Connections Lessons
Weekly online lessons for teens (aged 15-18) made available and downloadable as PDFs.
Read More
About Us
Cornerstone Connections is the Sabbath School Bible Study Guide developed for high school teens in the Sabbath School department at the General Conference of the Seventh-day Adventist Church.
Read More
Lots of resources to explore!
Read More
Get the App
Find Cornerstone Connections content with the iPhone, iPad, or Android App.
Read More
Star Icon
Popular Resources
Quarterly Bible Study Resources
Beginner (ages birth-2)
Kindergarten (ages 3-4)
Primary (ages 5-9)
Junior PowerPoints Lessons
RealTime Faith Lessons
Cornerstone Connections Lessons
News and Features
Conflict of the Ages companion books
Cornerstone Connections
lessons are structured on the simplified Conflict of the Ages five-volume set, which are adapted and condensed in contemporary language for easier reading.
Read More
Living It
Living It is a resource center where youth leaders of all kinds can find encouragement and support for working with public high-school students. The big idea behind Living It is to “go” vs. “draw.” Go out and meet high-school students in the middle of their lives and walk beside them, demonstrating God’s love for them and showing them how to truly live their faith in the real world.
Read More
Share This Page
Email
Feedback
Seventh Day Adventist Logo
www.cornerstoneconnections.net is an Official website of the Seventh-day Adventist world church •
View Regions
Copyright © 2016, General Conference of Seventh-day Adventists
12501 Old Columbia Pike, Silver Spring, MD 20904, USA 301-680-6000
Trademark and Logo Usage
Legal Notice
Cookies Settings
