Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 6.5.2'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'EventON 4.6.2'}

Body Text:
CED – Council for Entrepreneurial Development
Skip to content
About
Get Support
Give Support
Venture Connect
Blog
Contact
Search
Primary Menu
About
The Network
The Team
Careers
The Board
Event Calendar
Get Support
Company Support
Connect to Capital
GRO Incubator by CED
GRO Testimonials
GRO Companies
Give Support
Partner
Build
Collaborate
Student Engagement
Investors
Venture Report
Investor Fly-in
Venture Connect
Blog
Donate
Contact
Search
We'll help you build your company
Home
we match entrepreneurs with the resources they need.
If you’re just getting started with a new company and need support, or if you’re an experienced entrepreneur wanting to foster a young company’s success, CED facilitates the ideal connections.
where do you fit in?
GROW YOUR COMPANY
Get Support
Are you seeking the resources that will help your company succeed?  CED connects entrepreneurs with invaluable resources that can help a new company launch and grow successfully. From financial backing to mentoring, our partners are here to help.
Learn More
EMPOWER AN ENTREPRENEUR
Give Support
Do you want to offer your entrepreneurial expertise, share your network, or invest in a smart start-up? CED partners with entrepreneurs, investors and the business community to connect growing companies with the resources needed to scale.
Learn More
we’re a close-knit community  of 40,000
CED is one part of a larger entrepreneurial ecosystem.
Here are just some of the ways we contribute:
7000
Companies supported
1000
Active resources supporting companies
$
6
B
Raised by companies
400
+
Investors engaged
#Investor
CED does a great job of thoughtfully connecting investors with entrepreneurs who are building promising companies.  We benefit greatly from all of their hard work in supporting local startups.”
Alex Gray // Principal // Gray Ventures
#StartupCompany
I work with CED to be plugged into the vibrant entrepreneurial ecosystem of North Carolina. We have benefitted immensely from being a participant in the program and having access to other resources over the years. I look forward to continuing to work with CED and contributing to the entrepreneurial fabric of North Carolina.”
Leah Townsend, Ph.D. // President // Pulvinar Neuro
#Builder
Building a great company is hard…very hard.  If we can provide first-time entrepreneurs with both the context and the confidence to navigate that journey, we can have a tremendous impact on North Carolina.”
Carl Ryden // Founder // PrecisionLender
#PremiumPartner
The CED staff takes great effort to put people together in an organic way, everyone is willing to be candid about their needs and their goals. That sharing allows me the chance to connect members to other individuals in both the market and the greater community, and it also creates a road map through which my team and I can use our own expertise to help their organization directly, should they need it.”
Wilson McWilliams // Owner & Strategist // JWM Group
what does your company need to succeed?
support
Taking a high-touch approach, CED provides startups and founders with access to the support they need to scale.
capital
If you’re seeking financial support for your company, we can connect you with the perfect investor match–and fully prepare you to make a great impression.
connections
Make the connections that count with CED’s networking events, partner referrals, and more ways to mingle with established entrepreneurs.
explore support
March 20-21, 2024
Raleigh | North Carolina
Venture Connect 2024 is a one-of-a-kind capital summit bringing together Tech and Biotech under one roof. Largest selection of high growth companies that are scaling in the Southeast.
Learn more
get the latest
uncategorized:
Exploration and Engagement: How the...
By John Buxton, Startup TNT Intern, Spring 2024 When I...
uncategorized:
Important Takeaways from My Semester...
By Emma Martinez-Morison, Startup TNT Intern, Spring 2024 My main...
press release:
CED Unveils Largest GRO Incubator...
CED accepts fourteen companies into its seventh incubator cohort. The...
press release:
High Growth North Carolina Companies...
Research Triangle Park, NC. February 27, 2024 — The Council...
press release:
CED Announces Companies Selected to...
RTP, NC, February 12, 2024 – The Council for Entrepreneurial...
partners:
Partner Spotlight: Q&A with CSC...
We recently had the opportunity to talk with Jordan Stowe,...
sign up for our newsletter
It’s a smart step to partner with CED. We’re passionate about helping entrepreneurs connect with the right resources—and we’re dedicated to guiding you towards a successful business.
CED
Twitter
LinkedIn
YouTube
The Council for Entrepreneurial Development (CED) is a North Carolina non-profit organization dedicated to connecting regional entrepreneurs with the resources they need to build and launch a successful business. For more than 35 years, CED has partnered with a network of supporters, giving start-ups the chance to get mentoring, financial backing, education, and other resources vital to a solid business.
Contact us
919 549 7500
Email us
600 Park Offices Dr
Suite 100
Research Triangle Park
NC 27709
get directions
Home
About
Give Support
Get Support
Blog
Careers
Contact
Copyright © 2023 CED. All Rights Reserved.
X
X
