Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'name': 'rating', 'content': 'General'}
{'name': 'Author', 'content': 'Advanced Solutions International, Inc.'}

Body Text:
Join Delta Sigma Theta
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
LOGIN
Home
Create an Account
Delta
Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., a national service sorority, requires that its
members exemplify and encourage high cultural, intellectual, and moral
standards and that their actions exemplify the public and personal behaviors
that reflect the ideals and principles espoused by the Sisterhood.
Membership In a Chapter
The membership intake process aligns with the ideals, values and public service mission of Delta Sigma Theta.
The sorority currently has 1,000 collegiate and alumnae chapters located in the United States, Canada, Japan (Tokyo and Okinawa), Germany, the Virgin Islands, Bermuda, the Bahamas, Jamaica, the United Arab Emirates, West Africa, and the Republic of Korea.
Chapters hold an open activity for the purpose of sharing information about the
Sorority and how to become a member. This activity is referred to as the “rush.” The rush is held for the purpose of sharing information about the Sorority with persons
interested in seeking membership.   Specific details about joining Delta Sigma Theta are provided at the local chapter level.
Eligibility
Collegiate Eligibility
Alumnae Eligibility
Policies and Procedures
Anti-Hazing/Whistblower
Code of Conduct
Locate a Chapter
Welcome Parents
Recommendation Letters
Membership Application Documents
Legacy Guidelines
Chapter Locator
Search for the nearest chapter by State. International locator also available.
Find Nearest Chapter
Legacy Guidelines
Delta is piloting a Legacy program in all seven regions for potential new members.  A Legacy is defined as the daughter or granddaughter (biological or adopted), of an active or deceased Member who satisfies specific criteria. For your application to be reviewed as Legacy in the pilot program, the Legacy Certification Application must be completed by a Member or Member Advocate.  Additional details for members are available in the Member Portal.  Please review the Member and Member Advocate guidelines and Legacy Certification Application.
Legacy Certification Application
Welcome Parents
Becoming a member of Delta Sigma Theta means joining an organization with over 350,000 initiated members.  With a strong focus on Sisterhood, Scholarship, and Service we are committed to the highest ethical, intellectual, cultural and moral standards. We welcome the support of parents and family for interested collegiate women.
Applicant's Agreement and Parents/Guardians Acknowledgement Form (Collegiate Only)
Becoming a member of Delta Sigma Theta means joining an organization with over 350,000 initiated members.  With a strong focus on Sisterhood, Scholarship, and Service we are committed to the highest ethical, intellectual, cultural and moral standards. We welcome the support of parents and family for interested collegiate women.
Applicant's Agreement and Parents/Guardians Acknowledgement Form (Collegiate Only)
Write a Recommendation
Your recommendation is valued and appreciated! University officials, public service organizations, and existing members are invited to recommend a potential new member or introduce a legacy.
Instructions for Required Content: Member of DST Incorporated Letter
Instructions for Required Content: Public Service Letter
Instructions for Required Content: University Official Letter
Marshmallow soufflé sweet cake. Sweet lollipop jujubes marshmallow gummi bears cotton candy topping cheesecake marshmallow.
Recommendation Instructions
Membership Application Documents
We appreciate your interest in becoming a member.  There are a number of documents you should review and become familiar with that are an important part of your online application.
General
Notice to Applicant/Candidate/Pyramid Regarding Privilege and Responsibilities
Applicant/Candidate/Pyramid Code of Conduct
Whistleblower Policy
Legacy Certification Application
Schedule of Fees
Delta Applicant Information Sheet
Collegiate
Membership Eligibility Requirements and Criteria for Collegiate Chapters
Applicant’s Agreement and Parents/Guardians Acknowledgement Form (Collegiate Only)
Applicants Waiver Form
Alumnae
Membership Eligibility Requirements and Criteria for Alumnae Chapters
FAQs
Do Students Who Are Pursuing An Associate's Degree Qualify For Membership In Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc.?
No. For membership in the Sorority on the collegiate level, one must be matriculating at an accredited college or university, pursuing work leading to an initial baccalaureate degree;
or have already received a baccalaureate degree or higher, if pursuing membership on the alumnae level.
If I Meet All Requirements Specified At The Rush Activity, Do I Automatically Receive An Invitation For Membership Intake?
No. Our goal is to select women who not only meet the basic requirements, but also exceed them. Meeting basic requirements is the initial step in the Membership Intake Process.
Is There Another Way For Me To Become A Member Of The Sorority If I Attend A College/University That Doesn't Have A Chapter Or The Chapter Is Inactive?
No. If that college/university doesn’t have a chapter or the chapter is inactive, you cannot go to another chapter to seek membership. However, you may seek membership on the alumnae level upon receipt of your Baccalaureate degree.
Is There An Age Limit To Join?
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. does not have an age limit for persons interested in either collegiate or alumnae chapters.
I Am Not African American, Can I Still Join?
Yes. Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. is an equal opportunity organization. We are interested in women who understand the founding principles of the organization and are willing to uphold and support those principles and Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc.’s high moral values.
How Do I Find Out More Information About The Sorority?
Our
Public Website
is filled with information pertaining to our programs, projects, initiatives and history. The local chapter in your community can also share more information and there are several published materials that might be of interest to you.
What If I Belong To Another Greek-Letter Organization, Am I Still Eligible For Membership?
If you are a member of or previously held membership in another organization holding membership in the National Pan-Hellenic Council, Inc., the Panhellenic Conference, Inc., the National Multicultural Greek Council, Inc., or Interfraternity Council (IFC) you are not eligible to join Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc.
Sisterhood, Scholarship, Service and Social Action
X
Collegiate Membership
Any female student currently enrolled at a college or university where there is an active chapter on campus or in the city is eligible to apply for membership, provided that:
the college or university where the student is enrolled is accredited by an accrediting agency that is recognized by the United States Department of Education or the Council for Higher Education Accreditation;
the student is taking courses leading to her first/initial baccalaureate degree or its equivalent;
the student has completed at least 24 semester hours or 36 quarter hours;
the student is in good academic standing with a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.75 on a 4.0 scale or 1.75 on a 3.0 scale; or equivalent, except where the minimum grade point average required by the college or university is greater, then the minimum grade point average must be used for eligibility; and
the student is not a member of any society holding membership in the National Pan-Hellenic Council, Inc. or the Panhellenic Conference, Inc.
Any applicant for membership must receive a majority of the votes of members of the chapter to which she has applied. However, the vote of the chapter is subject to final approval of the Regional Director.
X
Alumnae Membership
Any female who has earned a baccalaureate degree from a college or university is eligible to apply for membership of an Alumnae Chapter provided that:
the college or university from which she has earned her degree is accredited by an accrediting agency that is recognized by the United States Department of Education or the Council for Higher Education Accreditation;
the female graduated with a minimum cumulative grade point average of 2.75 on a 4.0 scale or 1.75 on a 3.0 scale;
the female resides in the community/area that is serviced by the Alumnae Chapter; and
the female is not a member of, nor has been expelled from, any society holding membership in the National Pan-Hellenic Council, Inc. or the Panhellenic Conference, Inc.
Any applicant for membership must receive a majority of the votes of members of the chapter to which she has applied. However, the vote of the chapter is subject to final approval of the Regional Director.
X
Anti-Hazing/Whistblower
Whistleblower Policy
Report Hazing Allegation
SUMMARY OF ANTI-HAZING POLICY
Anyone interested in obtaining more information on Delta’s anti-hazing policy may contact Delta’s Director of Membership.
General Overview
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated (“Delta”) has a zero-tolerance hazing policy. The policy is embodied in numerous Delta documents that are disseminated to members, including the Constitution and By Laws; the Code of Conduct; the Administrative Procedures Manual for Membership Intake; and the “no hazing” contract members are required to sign. The policy likewise is embodied in documents disseminated to applicants/prospective members, including the Applicants Rights and Responsibilities Statement (“no hazing contract), which all applicants are required to sign. The policy expressly prohibits all acts and forms of hazing, before, during and after the Membership Intake Process. The prohibition covers all hazing activities, whether physical, mental, or emotional, including, but not limited to, pre-initiation and/or underground activities (which is anything in addition to or contrary to approved activities); paddling; beating; slapping; blindfolding; pushing; depriving of sleep; pulling on clothes; pulling one’s hair; requiring the consumption of alcohol or drugs; forcing or requiring the consumption of foods that an applicant/prospective member finds disagreeable; yelling; humiliating; harassing; belittling; cursing; any morally degrading, illegal, or indecent action; requiring applicants/prospective members or newly initiated members to perform housework or homework for members, or to “run errands.”
Any member of Delta who participates in any form of hazing, or who is aware of hazing or allegations of hazing, and fails to report such shall be sanctioned, as summarized below and as provided in detail in Delta’s Conduct of Conduct. Any applicant/prospective member who consents to hazing, who participates in hazing by allowing herself to be hazed, or who is aware of hazing, but fails to report it shall be barred from membership in Delta.
Reports shall be made in the following order: to the chapter president; the chapter advisors; and the Regional Director and Regional Representative; and/or to the National First Vice President and the Executive Director of Delta. All hazing reports must be sufficiently detailed to enable those to whom a report is made to take action. If any member or applicant/prospective member reports hazing and does not receive a positive response, she should immediately escalate the reporting to the next level. Anyone reporting hazing always has the option of contacting the National First Vice President and/or the Executive Director directly, at any time.
National Policy is Exclusive
Anyone interested in becoming a member of Delta is hereby notified that Delta has approved no practices that are inconsistent with the policy summarized above. The Sorority does not consent to, condone, acquiesce in, or tolerate any acts or forms of hazing, including, but not limited to, activities of the kind enumerated above. There is absolutely no requirement that anyone participating in Membership Intake or who has been initiated submit to any form of hazing. To reiterate: to become a member of Delta, no one is required to, and no one should, participate in any form of hazing. This includes participation in any “chapter traditions” or “chapter practices,” which some chapters or individual members may purport to implement in the name of Delta. Delta has not approved any such “chapter traditions” or “chapter practices,” and no chapter or individual member has authority to supplement, modify, or override Delta’s Membership Intake policy. Thus, to become a member of Delta, no one is required to, and no one should, participate in any such traditions or practices.
Delta disclaims responsibility or liability for any damages, claims, or injury that is related to or results from the conduct of any individual(s), groups, or associations purporting to perform any unapproved acts in the name of Delta.
Penalties for Hazing
Delta shall impose sanctions upon any members, chapters, and applicants/prospective members who are involved in any form of hazing, including being aware of and not reporting hazing or allegations of hazing to the chapter president; the chapter advisors; the Regional Director; and/or the National First Vice President; and the Executive Director of Delta. The type of sanctions to be imposed upon chapters and members depends on the nature of the violation and any history of any such prior violations.
For chapters, the range of sanctions includes any one of the following: denial of the right to conduct membership intake; suspension for a time certain; and revocation of chapter charter. With respect to individual members, the range of sanctions includes suspension and/or expulsion. Suspension automatically includes the denial of the right to participate in any Delta activities on a local, regional, or national level, including the right to wear paraphernalia, during the period of suspension. Expulsion means that Delta has revoked all rights and privileges of membership, including, but not limited to, the right to attend or participate in any “Deltas-only” functions; the right of a woman to represent herself as a member of Delta; the right to wear paraphernalia; and the right to refer to members of Delta as “sorors.” Both a chapter and an individual may be assessed a monetary fine, as appropriate.
With respect to applicants/prospective members, the sanction is denial of membership in the Sorority.
Delta posts on its website the names of chapters that have been placed in suspended status or whose charters have been revoked. Delta also posts the names of members who have been suspended or expelled and of prospective members who have been barred from membership.
Finally, given that hazing is a crime in 44 states, Delta will report acts of hazing to law enforcement officials. Delta will not defend any member who is charged with hazing.
X
Anti-Hazing/Whistblower
Code of Conduct (Revised April 2021)
Code of Conduct (Revised April 2019)
Code of Conduct (Revised April 2018)
Cease and Desist
CODE OF CONDUCT
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc., a national service sorority, requires that its members exemplify and encourage high cultural, intellectual, and moral standards and that their actions exemplify the public and personal behaviors that reflect the ideals and principles espoused by the Sisterhood.
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Incorporated (“Delta”) has a zero – tolerance hazing policy. The policy expressly prohibits all acts and forms of hazing, before, during, and after the Membership Intake Process.
The Code of Conduct consists of two parts: the Code of Ethics, which states the types of conduct that the Sorority considers acceptable, and the Disciplinary Action Code, which sets forth the types of conduct that is unacceptable and the corresponding discipline to be imposed upon any individual or chapter that engages in prohibited conduct.
The principles of the Sorority’s Constitution and Bylaws, the Delta Oath, and other governing and guidance documents are embodied in the Code of Conduct which is embodied in The Acknowledgement of Rights and Responsibilities of Members of Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Regarding Membership Intake Prohibitions (No Hazing Contract), and the Applicant/Candidate/Pyramid Rights and Responsibilities Statement.
Revisions to this Code of Conduct, including the sanctions and fines to be assessed under this Code, shall be made by the National Scholarship and Standards Committee and approved by the National Executive Board.
About
.
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority Inc., is a private not-for-profit organization whose purpose is to provide
assistance and support through established programs in local communities throughout the world.
Address
.
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc.
1707 New Hampshire Ave.,
NW
            Washington, DC 20009
Phone: (202) 986-2400
Fax: (202) 986-2513
Stay Connected
.
HOME
|
CREATE AN ACCOUNT
|
NATIONAL WEBSITE
|
REGIONAL
© 2024. Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. All rights reserved.
{1}
##LOC[OK]##
{1}
##LOC[OK]##
##LOC[Cancel]##
{1}
##LOC[OK]##
##LOC[Cancel]##
