Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'initial-scale = 1.0, maximum-scale = 1.0, user-scalable = no, width = device-width'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Powered by WPBakery Page Builder - drag and drop page builder for WordPress.'}

Body Text:
Swim For Charlie
Swim For Charlie
Home
About Charlie
Organization
Program
News
Board
Schools
Durham Public Schools
Orange County Schools
Pools
Hollow Rock Racquet & Swim Club
NCCU Aquatic Center
Orange County Sportsplex
Volunteer
Donate
Dr. Charles van der Horst Water Safety Initiative
Providing an opportunity for every child to be safe in and around water
Swim for Charlie is teaching second-grade North Carolina students life-saving water safety skills.
This fall 2023, Swim for Charlie had 594 students participate, bringing the total number of students served since the program’s inception in spring 2020 to 1579 from 19 schools hosted by 6 pools. For the spring of 2024 the program will be offered to another 650 students in Durham Public Schools and Orange County Schools.
Swim for Charlie hopes to expand to other North Carolina school districts to provide water safety education to more second graders.
Learn more about the program
A FORCE FOR GOOD
In his actions as a social justice activist, caring clinician, medical researcher, Public Health crusader, and philanthropist, Charlie was involved in many activities benefiting vulnerable populations.
In keeping with Charlie’s values, his love for swimming, and interest with youth, Charlie’s fellow swimmers and friends, inspired by his actions, have formed a nonprofit charitable organization in his name to make children safer in and around the water.
Learn more about Charlie
Make a Donation
Drowning is one of the leading causes of death in children
No child is ever water safe. The goal of swim lessons is to make children SAFER in, on, and around water.
10 people drown each day in the United States
80-100 near drownings occur daily in the United States
79% of children in households with incomes less than $50,000 have little-to-no swimming ability
64% of African-American, 45% of Hispanic/Latino, and 40% of Caucasian children have little to no swimming ability.
88% of childhood drownings can be prevented with formal swimming lessons
Partnership
1821 Hillandale Road
Suite 1B #126
Durham, NC 27705-2671
phone (984) 464-1130
Contact us:
[email protected]
