Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'Duke Primary Care has family medicine providers, internal medicine providers, and pediatricians in more than 50 locations in North Carolina.'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Duke Health'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'article'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.dukehealth.org/treatments/primary-care'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Primary Care'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'name': 'twitter:site', 'content': '@DukeHealth'}
{'name': 'twitter:title', 'content': 'Primary Care'}
{'name': 'Generator', 'content': 'Drupal 10 (https://www.drupal.org)'}
{'name': 'MobileOptimized', 'content': 'width'}
{'name': 'HandheldFriendly', 'content': 'true'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'property': 'twitter:description', 'content': 'Duke Primary Care has family medicine providers, internal medicine providers, and pediatricians in more than 50 locations in North Carolina.'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://www.dukehealth.org/sites/default/files/treatment_group/treatment_primarycare_1500x430.jpg'}
{'property': 'twitter:image', 'content': 'https://www.dukehealth.org/sites/default/files/treatment_group/treatment_primarycare_1500x430.jpg'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'Duke Primary Care has family medicine providers, internal medicine providers, and pediatricians in more than 50 locations in North Carolina.'}
{'name': 'format-detection', 'content': 'telephone=no'}
{'name': 'google-site-verification', 'content': '5y1A1OK8Kh3ZGRNn0SicEnyzuPTvvqAP-zNt64i3kXE'}
{'itemprop': 'telephone', 'content': '+8558556484'}

Body Text:
Primary Care | Raleigh, Durham, North Carolina | Duke Health
Skip Navigation
Menu
Search
Submit
Duke Header Image Link
Schedule with My Duke Health (MyChart)
As a returning patient for this doctor, please schedule an appointment using your My Duke Health (MyChart) account.
Sign In to My Duke Health (MyChart)
Don't have a My Duke Health (MyChart) account?
Sign up now
Account Help
If you have trouble logging in, have questions about how to use My Duke Health (MyChart), need more information about
          your account, or need to contact customer service, please
view our FAQs
.
×
Primary Care
For More Information
855-855-6484
Primary Care
									Menu
Primary Care
General Pediatrics
Family Medicine
Internal Medicine
Urgent Care
Duke Urgent Care
Pediatric Urgent Care
Virtual Visits and E-Visits
Virtual Primary and Urgent Care
Virtual Primary and Urgent Care FAQs
E-Visits
Concierge Medical Care
Duke Signature Care
Integrative Primary Care and Consults
Primary Care
General Pediatrics
Family Medicine
Internal Medicine
Urgent Care
Duke Urgent Care
Pediatric Urgent Care
Virtual Visits and E-Visits
Virtual Primary and Urgent Care
Virtual Primary and Urgent Care FAQs
E-Visits
Concierge Medical Care
Duke Signature Care
Integrative Primary Care and Consults
Home
Treatments for Adults
/
Children
Primary Care
Primary Care Doctors for Everyone in Your Family
View General Pediatrics
For More Information
855-855-6484
We’ve made it easy for you and your family to find great primary care doctors and
urgent care
clinics right in your neighborhood. Duke Primary Care clinics include family doctors, internal medicine doctors, pediatricians, physician assistants, and nurse practitioners in more than 50 locations. We accept a growing list of Duke-friendly health plans.
Virtual Visits and E-Visits
We offer
virtual visits
with a primary care provider. They take place on a computer or mobile device with a camera using secure videoconferencing software that protects your privacy.
You can use
E-visits
to securely, privately, and conveniently communicate with your Duke providers. This enhanced online messaging system allows you to receive safe medical care through My Duke Health (previously Duke MyChart) without disrupting your day for an in-person or video visit. E-visits take place on a computer or mobile device at a time that is convenient to you. They do not require a camera or videoconferencing software.
Our Locations
Schedule a New Appointment Online
You can schedule a
new
appointment with some of our providers online. Use this link to find available times and clinic locations.
Schedule a New Appointment
or call
855-855-6484
Your Primary Care Options
You have several options when it comes to choosing a primary care doctor for you or your family.
Family Medicine
Our family medicine clinics and doctors offer general well-care for children and adults, family planning, and care for chronic conditions.
Internal Medicine
Internal medicine doctors, nurse practitioners, and physician assistants diagnose and manage medical conditions that affect adults ages 18 and older. Many of our internists also specialize in the health and well-being of seniors and elderly people. Our internal medicine doctors help you manage your health.
General Pediatrics
Pediatricians and pediatric nurse practitioners provide well-baby and sick-baby care; general medical, developmental, and social health care; and age-appropriate care such as immunizations.
Adolescent and Young Adult Medicine
While our pediatricians are trained to treat adolescents, your teen also has the option to be seen by adolescent medicine specialists trained in the complex issues that arise in adolescence and young adulthood.
Urgent Care
Duke Urgent Care clinics offer extended hours and limited on-site laboratory and imaging services. We diagnose, treat, and manage urgent medical conditions and minor trauma when your primary care provider is unavailable. We are open 365 days a year.
Virtual visits
are also available.
Concierge Medical Care
Duke Signature Care
offers greater access to primary care doctors and other individualized services for an annual fee. You may make same- or next-day appointments at your convenience and have 24-hour/7-day-a-week access to your healthcare team by phone.
Duke Primary Care Doctors
Meet our internal medicine doctors, family medicine doctors, pediatricians and more. View their profiles and select the one that’s right for you.
Find a Primary Care Provider
Top-Rated Care, Reviewed by Patients
We want you to have confidence in your health care decisions. That starts with giving you the
information you need
before your visit. When choosing your primary care doctor, you'll find profiles that include ratings of up to five stars and feedback directly from patients. Every rating is based on patient responses to their experience at Duke and is validated by an independent patient satisfaction organization.
Duke Primary Care Locations
Find a Duke primary care clinic in Durham, Raleigh, Cary, and other locations throughout the Triangle.
Find a Primary Care Clinic
Why Choose Duke Primary Care
Select the Primary Care Doctor that's Right for You
Several different types of health professionals provide primary care. Some work only with adults, others work only with children, and some work with every member of your family. If you know what you are looking for, find a convenient location nearest you. Or discover the benefits of each type of provider and choose the one best suited to your and your family's needs.
Call for an Appointment
855-855-6484
Get Referrals to Specialists
Our primary care doctors can refer you to specialists who are ranked among the best doctors in the U.S. They have access to the latest research, technology, and medical advances, many of which were discovered at Duke Health.
Manage Your Health with My Duke Health
Schedule appointments, view lab results, request prescription refills, communicate with your provider, and pay bills using our secure patient portal,
My Duke Health
.  Our electronic medical record system is also accessed by every Duke doctor in every Duke facility, so your care will always be coordinated.
Talking to Your Health Care Provider About Being LGBTQ+
Sharing personal information with your provider can help our care teams support your unique needs. Information about sexual orientation and gender identity help us personalize care for health risks that may be applicable to you.
Learn more
about why we ask about personal information and how it helps us provide the best care possible.
Sign Up for My Duke Health
Our secure website makes it easy for you to schedule appointments, pay your bills, and send a message to your doctor’s office when you have non-urgent medical needs. If you would like to sign-up for My Duke Health, you need an activation code. To receive one, you can call us at 919-620-4555, ask your doctor at your next appointment, or request an activation code by visiting
this page
and clicking the Sign-Up Online button.
This page was medically reviewed on 01/20/2022
Back to Top
Duke Health Home Page
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Instagram
LinkedIn
855-855-6484
Duke Health Anti-Racism Pledge
Notice of Nondiscrimination
Notice of Privacy Practices
Accessibility
Price Transparency
Terms and Conditions
Website Privacy Policy
Duke Children's
Duke School of Medicine
Duke School of Nursing
Duke University
About Duke Health
Careers
Contact Us
Email Sign Up
Giving
Newsroom
Referring Physicians
Copyright © 2004-2024 Duke University Health System
