Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'The purpose of the Duke Orthopaedic Hand, Upper Extremity, and Microvascular Surgery Fellowship is to offer fellows special knowledge and training in the management of elbow, wrist, and hand conditions including:'}
{'name': 'Generator', 'content': 'Drupal 10 (https://www.drupal.org)'}
{'name': 'MobileOptimized', 'content': 'width'}
{'name': 'HandheldFriendly', 'content': 'true'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1, shrink-to-fit=no'}
{'http-equiv': 'x-ua-compatible', 'content': 'ie=edge'}

Body Text:
Hand Surgery, Upper Extremity, and Microvascular Surgery Fellowship | Duke Department of Surgery
Skip to main content
Utility
Giving
Intranet
QGenda
Division of Hand Surgery
Menu
Close
Main navigation
Utility
Giving
Intranet
QGenda
Home
Divisions
Hand Surgery
Fellowship
Hand Surgery, Upper Extremity, and Microvascular Surgery Fellowship
The purpose of the Duke Orthopaedic Hand, Upper Extremity, and Microvascular Surgery Fellowship is to offer fellows special knowledge and training in the management of elbow, wrist, and hand conditions including:
Acute hand and upper extremity trauma
Hand and upper extremity microvascular emergencies
Reconstructive hand and upper extremity conditions
Congenital upper limb deformities
Brachial plexus and peripheral nerve injuries
Shoulder: Fractures, arthroplasty, and arthroscopic training
Sports injuries of the upper extremities
Dates
: August 1 through July 31
Program training director
: Marc J. Richard, MD
Number of fellows
: Three (ACGME)
Please refer to the
Fellowship Details
(PDF) for more information to include, but not limited to:
Criteria for selection of fellows
Interview dates
Match participation/ deadlines
Visa sponsorship
Qualifications/ restrictions
Alumni Society
Graduating fellows of the Duke Hand program will become members of the Duke Hand Club. This alumni association is an active society that meets each year at the ASSH Annual Meeting.  The club also sponsors a residents and fellows course in Wilmington, NC each Spring. Finally, a formal Duke Hand Club meeting is held internationally every three years, often in association with the triennial International Federation of Societies for Surgery of the Hand (IFSSH) Meeting. The next meeting is in the Spring of  2019 in Scotland (Gleneagles).
Furthermore, graduates will become part of the prestigious
Piedmont Orthopedic Society
. Induction into this group of life-long learners includes access to an annual meeting and alumni reunions at events such as the AAOS annual meeting, and the annual meeting of the Piedmont Society.
About Durham, NC
We think you will find everything you need for an enriching life and training experience in and around Durham, North Carolina — our home. It combines the best of a big city and a small town: friendly people, plenty of job opportunities and things to do, and affordability.
Learn more about life in Durham.
Contact Us
Cheryl DePaolis
Fellowship Program Coordinator
919-654-0536​
dukeorthogme@dm.duke.edu
In this section
In this section
Sidebar navigation - 3rd level
About the Division
Administration and Staff
Fellowship
Program Structure
Research
How to Apply
Current Fellows
Graduated Fellows
Faculty
Faculty
Patient Care
Research
News
Footer
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
LinkedIn
Accessibility
Terms and Conditions
Division of Hand Surgery
medschool.duke.edu
|
duke.edu
|
dukehealth.org
@2024 Duke University and Duke University Health System.
                  All rights reserved.
