Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'Generator', 'content': 'Drupal 10 (https://www.drupal.org)'}
{'name': 'MobileOptimized', 'content': 'width'}
{'name': 'HandheldFriendly', 'content': 'true'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1, shrink-to-fit=no'}
{'http-equiv': 'x-ua-compatible', 'content': 'ie=edge'}

Body Text:
Research | Duke University School of Medicine
Skip to main content
Utility
Faculty Directory
Contact Us
Virtual Tour
Search
Menu
Close
Main navigation
About Us
toggle sub nav items
Leadership and  Administration
Equity, Diversity & Inclusion
Facts & Figures
History
Named Professorships
Faculty Resources
Staff Resources
Duke In Durham
Duke Health Virtual Tour
Alumni
Giving
Anatomical Gifts Program
Calendar of Events
Contact Us
Education
toggle sub nav items
Health Professions Education Programs
Biomedical PhD Programs
Certificate and Training Programs
International Experiences
Why Choose Duke
Graduate Medical Education
Continuing Medical Education
Duke AHEC Program
SoM Bulletin
Duke Medical Center Library & Archives
Research
toggle sub nav items
Basic Science Research
Clinical and Translational Research
Data Science
Duke Research and Discovery @RTP
Core Facilities & Service Centers
COVID-19 Response
Research Initiatives
Research Support
Nobel Laureates
Summer Undergraduate Research Opportunities
Celebrating Scientific Discoveries
Patient Care
Community Partnership
Departments, Centers & Institutes
Newsroom
toggle sub nav items
News
Magnify Magazine
DukeMed Alumni News
Magazines and Annual Reports
Podcasts
Video Highlights
Utility
Faculty Directory
Contact Us
Virtual Tour
Home
Research
Duke University School of Medicine is the vibrant home for the next generation of discovery. Our capacity for innovation stems from knitting together our existing strengths in fundamental basic science and deepening our growing translational capabilities, our integration with Duke’s national recognized clinical enterprise, and our unique scale and depth in clinical research. The combined efforts of the school’s basic and clinical faculty members in 26 departments, and numerous centers, institutes and initiatives make Duke one of the largest biomedical research enterprises in the country with $1 billlion in sponsored research expenditures annually.
Basic Science Research
Clinical and Translational Research
Data Science & Information Technology
Research Initiatives
Research Support
Research Strategic Plan
Duke Research and Discovery @RTP
Duke Research and Discovery @RTP
In 2021, the Duke University School of Medicine opened its first research campus in the Research Triangle Park (RTP). Home to more than 300 businesses including Apple and Google, RTP is the largest research park in the United States and a premier global innovation center. Duke’s 273,000 square foot facility is home to researchers in the School of Medicine who are studying infectious disease and vaccine development. The expansion into RTP was precipitated by a surge in new federal research grants awarded to Duke to fund vaccine development.
Duke Research and Discovery @RTP
Duke Science and Technology
Duke University in 2019 initiated a university-wide effort to elevate and sustain excellence in the sciences with new funding for research, recruitment of nationally recognized scholars, and retainment of highly regarded scientific leaders at Duke. Launched with a $100 million investment from The Duke Endowment — divided equally between the university and the School of Medicine — Duke Science and Technology (DST) positions Duke to maximize the potential of revolutionary advances in fields such as genomics, data science, and artificial intelligence.
The effort focuses on three broad thematic pillars:
Resilience: Fortifying the Body and Brain
, which seeks to harness the body’s intrinsic mechanisms to fight disease;
Computing,
involving fields such as artificial intelligence and machine learning; and
Materials Science,
which seeks to engineer new materials to solve challenges in disparate fields.
School of Medicine researchers are leading in efforts to advance the Body and Brain Resilience pillar, focusing on four broad areas where Duke has significant strengths: brain, cancer, immunology, and viruses. Seven DST Scholars have been recruited as faculty in the School of Medicine.
Duke Science and Technology
Nobel Laureates
Duke University School of Medicine is proud to claim
two Nobel Laureates
among its faculty.
Robert Lefkowitz, M.D.
, professor of medicine and a Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator, was recognized in 2012 for his work on a class of cell surface receptors that have become the target of prescription drugs, including antihistamines, ulcer drugs and beta blockers to relieve hypertension, angina and coronary diseases.
Paul Modrich, Ph.D.,
professor of biochemistry and a Howard Hughes Medical Institute Investigator, was recognized in 2015 for mapping, at a molecular level, how cells repair damaged DNA and safeguard the genetic information.
Check out School of Medicine facts, statistics, and key priorities as they relate to Education, Research, Patient Care, Community Partnerships, Global Impact, and Philanthropy
Visit
Facts & Figures
Footer
Twitter
YouTube
LinkedIn
RSS feed
Terms and Conditions
Accessibility
medschool.duke.edu
|
duke.edu
|
dukehealth.org
@2024 Duke University and Duke University Health System.
                  All rights reserved.
