Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 4.9.25'}

Body Text:
Splat Space | Durham's MakerSpace
Menu
Skip to content
About
Location & Hours
What We Have
TriDIYBio
Event Calendar
RSVP to Events (Meetup)
Donations
Donate
Contributors
Memberships
Join
Membership Dues Subscription
Pay Custom Dues
Membership Agreement
Code of Conduct
Bylaws
Policies
Learn More
Contact Us
FAQ
Google Discussion Group
Join Mailing List
Wiki
Multimedia
Youtube Channel
Flickr
Digital Media Kit
SplatSpace Clothing
About
SplatSpace (previously known as Durham Makerspace) is an upcoming multidisciplinary workshop and hackerspace in downtown Durham. We are a 501(c)(3) non-profit, member-driven, member-funded organization. We are looking for crafters, engineers, mad scientists, artists, programmers, tinkerers, and makers of all kinds to join our organization.
We provide members access to:
Wood shop
Metal Shop
Laser Cutters
3D Printers
Electronics & Soldering Stations
Vinyl Cutter
Large Format Printer
Hand Tools
Crafting Materials and Storage
A Community of Knowledgeable and Passionate Makers!
During 2022 (related to ongoing COVID-19 restrictions) we hold online meetings on the first and third Tuesday of each month.  Once it is safe to do so, we will resume holding weekly meetings at Splatpace on Tuesday nights, as well as classes, events, and get-togethers to celebrate and share our strengths, learn from each other, and collaborate on projects.
We are a community of hackers and makers, teachers and students.  Our ultimate goal is to reach out to each other and the surrounding community to share our passion for art, technology, and innovation. Through sharing this passion, SplatSpace members contribute to the technical and artistic vibrancy of Durham, and the Triangle as a whole.
If you’d like to be involved, jump right in!  If you’ve never heard of a makerspace or hackerspace before, don’t worry.  Visit our
FAQ
for more details, or reach out to us directly via
e-mail
or our
Google group
.  It may seem hard to believe that our only
real goal
is to create a community around collaboration and innovation, but it’s true!  And we want you involved, too.
Still interested? Join us for one of our monthly online meetings (until our weekly, in-person meetings resume) or request an in-person tour of SplatSpace by emailing us at
info@splatspace.org
.  Everyone is welcome!
Contact Us
E-mail (Best Method!):
info@splatspace.org
This is the best way to contact us or ask for more information.
Google Discussion Group:
Splat Space
Phone (Unattended):
919-704-4250
In case of trouble finding SplatSpace or getting into the parking lot or building for a meeting or event. We are not a staffed facility, so it’s unlikely you’ll reach someone by phone during other times.
Directions
SplatSpace is located at:
800 N. Mangum Street
Durham, NC 27701
Parking
Enter through the gate on E. Corporation Street (shown below in orange). See our
location page
for more details.
Powered By by
Sixteen Plus
