Meta Information:
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Powered by WPBakery Page Builder - drag and drop page builder for WordPress.'}

Body Text:
Durham Alumnae Chapter | Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc.
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc.
Durham Alumnae Chapter
CONNECT WITH US ON
Skip to content
Home
About Us
History
Past Presidents
Executive Committee
Committees
Programs
Jabberwock
Delta GEMS
Economic Development
STEM
Social Action
Delta Academy
Scholarship
EVENTS
Leadership
President’s Corner
Officers & Committee Chairs
Chaplain’s Corner
Contact Us
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority
is a private, non-profit organization whose purpose is to provide assistance
and support through established programs in local communities throughout the world.
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. Durham Alumnae Chapter
Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. has had an organized presence in Durham, N.C. since 1931. At that time, Sorors Mary Lee Fisher Morris and Minnie Pearson Turner Spaulding, two teachers at Hillside High School began work on chartering a local chapter. At its inception, Alpha Lambda was a mixed chapter comprised of both graduate and undergraduate members. Soror Mary Lee Fisher Morris served as the first president of Alpha Lambda from 1931 until 1937. The second president was Jochebed Christmas Locust. It was during her term in office that the graduate chapter, Alpha Kappa Sigma, was established. On April 25, 1941, Alpha Lambda initiated new undergraduate members and began operating as an undergraduate chapter. The graduate sorors of Alpha Lambda became members of Alpha Kappa Sigma. The charter members of Alpha Kappa Sigma Chapter were sorors:
Alice M.Farrison
Grayce Lanier Thompson
Lu Sybil Taylor
Vivian Merrick Sansom
Snowdrop Bailey
Edna Mason
In 1956, as a result of an action taken at the 24th National Convention, all graduate chapters became alumnae chapters, identified by the name of the city in which it was located. Thus, Alpha Kappa Sigma Chapter became Durham Alumnae Chapter.
The major programs of the sorority are based upon the organization’s Five Point Programmatic Thrust:
Economic Development
Physical and Mental Health
Educational Development
Political Awareness and Involvement
International Awareness and Involvement
Upcoming Events
May
19
Sun
4:30 pm
Jabberwock Interest Meeting
@ Zoom Virtual
Jabberwock Interest Meeting
@ Zoom Virtual
May 19 @ 4:30 pm – 5:30 pm
DACDST cordially invites young ladies who are rising juniors and seniors, along with their parents or guardians, to attend the Jabberwock 2025 Interest Meeting. The meeting will take place on May 19, 2024, from 4:30 to 5:30 pm via Zoom. …
Continue reading
→
View Calendar
Add
Add to Timely Calendar
Add to Google
Add to Outlook
Add to Apple Calendar
Add to other calendar
Export to XML
© Copyright 2014  Delta Sigma Theta Sorority, Inc. Durham Alumnae Chapter  |  Website by CustomWeb
This website is the sole property and responsibility of the Durham Alumnae Chapter.
