Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'content-type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'author', 'content': 'SemiColonWeb'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}

Body Text:
National CARES Mentoring Movement
HOME
ABOUT US
Mission and Vision
Our Team
Partners
Join Us
PROGRAMS
OUR NETWORK
Affiliates
RESOURCES
BLACK CHILD SUICIDE
News
Videos
ANWF Manual
Donate
Close
Close
Close
THE RISINGS:
ELEVATING EDUCATION, EXPECTATIONS AND SELF-ESTEEM
Deepening our commitment to healing young lives and understanding that group-mentoring is a low-cost way to change the predictable futures of the most defenseless children in America--impoverished Black boys and girls--CARES has built transformational programs in several of the most under-resourced schools located in high-need communities.
WATCH VIDEO
LEARN MORE
OUR AFFILIATES
Soldiers of Love
Our CARES Affiliate network in 58 U.S. cities recruits caring volunteers and connects them to where they are urgently needed: in schools, local youth-serving organizations including our own, and detention centers and reentry programs located in communities that are disrupted by poverty.
LEARN MORE
DONATE
{ these are the facts }
You can save a precious life…and nourish your own. Harsh and cruel experiences have led many of our young to believe that they are alone in the world and that no one cares.
The National CARES Mentoring Movement seeks to dispel that notion by providing young African Americans and their peers with role models who will play an active role in helping to shape their development. By mentoring our young, you can help redirect the course of his or her life.
WATCH VIDEO
Learn about Mentoring
About the National
CARES
Mentoring Movement
National CARES is a pioneering, community-mobilization initiative that directly addresses the life-shredding effects of intergenerational Black poverty and lays a blueprint for community recovery. Anchored by a 58 U.S-city affiliate network, we are the nation's recognized leader in the recruitment, training and engagement of African American mentors, and the only organization in the U.S. providing holistic programming on a national scale to advance Black children, growing up in poverty. Our work provides children and low-income parents with the emotional, social, academic and career-readiness support they must have to become self-sustaining, successful contributors to their family, community and our society. We assist the oft-forgotten Black—and Brown—people we serve in building bridges to the brighter futures they long for.
CARES’ unique, 32-week-long curricula are built to help children heal the multiple traumas of impoverishment and override their debilitating effects, that unaddressed will be life-long. CARES’ evidence-based healing initiatives unearth understanding, resilience, faith. They instill hope, critical thinking skills, racial pride, and a love for learning and wellness in mind, body and spirit. Our beloved young ones come to understand that they are greater than even their greatest challenges, authors of their futures, as they share their stories and heal together, supported by our trained psychologists, social workers and volunteer mentors in CARES’ wide-spreading Wellness Mentoring Circles. Our students and children in detention learn to transform their thinking and behaviors, how to love themselves, as well as one another, and prepare for success in school, careers and life.
One in six Black children is living in extreme poverty, which the federal government defines as a yearly household income of $12,129 or less for a family of four with two related children. Sadly, CARES’ restorative initiatives are singular—they are the only holistic programmatic works being built for the advancement of impoverished children and parents nationally.
National CARES Mentoring Movement
exists to secure and transform the lives of the nation's most vulnerable population—Black children living in poverty. Their lives are being shredded by many of the very institutions created to nourish all the children of our country. Our mentors and local CARES Affiliate Leaders are devoted to advancing our young who are isolated and mostly written off by society. We are writing them in!
WE'VE RECRUITED AND PLACED OVER
MENTORS
WHO HAVE SUPPORTED OVER
CHILDREN
IN OVER
CITIES
How National CARES is
Changing the Lives of Our Children
Our
Method
At CARES, we believe that transformation does not begin in the statehouses, but in our hearts and homes.
Learn More
Our
Impact
At National CARES, our culturally anchored and trained volunteer army of mentors and affiliate leaders prove every day that mentoring saves lives.
Learn More
Our
Call to Community
Forty percent of Black children are born into poverty. Eighty-six percent of our children cannot read or do math at grade level.
Learn More
COMPELLING
CARES
VIDEOS
Iyanla Vanzant presents a Guided Meditation to give you comfort during this time of great challenge.
THE CRISIS OF SUICIDE AMONG BLACK CHILDREN
Our RISING students testify about the power of our transformational programming
LATEST
NEWS
FOR THE LOVE OF OUR CHILDREN GALA
Founder and CEO
Susan L. Taylor,
and Honorary Co-Chair
Courtney B. Vance,
underscored the crucial work our organization does to ensure our young people whose lives are being shredded by poverty have access to the support needed to thrive. “Our work centers on healing traumas born of poverty and social marginalization. Our leaders and mentors that guide our young along pathways to emotional, social and financial well-being.”
READ ARTICLE
A HIGHER EDUCATION COLLABORATION
We are proud to announce a new partnership with the Columbia University School of Social Work, one of the world’s leading research universities; and Columbia University’s Black Alumni Council (BAC), the association for current and future Black alumni from all schools, affiliates and generations of Columbia.
READ ARTICLE
Cultural Curriculum Heals and Elevates Children's Lives
The National CARES Mentoring Movement is pioneering new paths forward that enhance the education of students in marginalized Black communities and under-resourced schools.
READ ARTICLE
The
MISSION
of the National CARES Mentoring Movement is to secure, heal and transform the lives of impoverished Black children by inspiring, recruiting and mobilizing masses of caring Black men and women to mentor and nourish them. Our national volunteer affiliate network connects adults to local youth-serving organizations. Our national group-mentoring programs focus on the emotional, social and academic development of our children and the wellness of the adults who parent, mentor and educate them.
GIVE TODAY
Navigation
Home
About Us
Programs
Our Network
Donate
Contact Information
Headquarters:
5 Penn Plaza- 23rd Floor
New York, NY 10001
Email:
info@caresmentoring.org
Latest Tweets
Copyrights © 2014 All Rights Reserved by National CARES Mentoring Movement.
Terms of Use
/
Privacy Policy
info@caresmentoring.org
·
