Meta Information:
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'theme-color', 'content': '#ffffff'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://greenway.org/imgs/og.jpg'}
{'property': 'og:image:type', 'content': 'image/jpg'}
{'property': 'og:image:width', 'content': '1200'}
{'property': 'og:image:height', 'content': '630'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://greenway.org/'}

Body Text:
East Coast Greenway - Home
Menu
Donate
About
About
The East Coast Greenway
Our Team
Our Impact
Our History
Job Openings
States
States
Maine
New Hampshire
Massachusetts
Rhode Island
Connecticut
New York
New Jersey
Pennsylvania
Delaware
Maryland
Washington D.C.
Virginia
North Carolina
South Carolina
Georgia
Florida
Map Tool
Trips
Trips
Plan Your Trip
Trip FAQs
Long-Distance Trips
High-Stress Segments
Suggested Itineraries
Favorites
CT-RI Guide to the Greenway
News
News
Our Impact: The Big Picture
News & Features Blog
Newsletters
Greenway Stimulus
RAISE Grants
Events
Events
Ride the East CT
Ride the State CT
BRAG Dream Team Ride
Impact Series
Past Events
Store
FAQs
Design Guide
Media
Contact Us
Connecting People to Place
Give today and grow the Greenway!
The East Coast Greenway connects 15 states and 450 cities and towns for 3,000 miles from Maine to Florida. We are fostering a safe walking and biking route through the country’s most populated corridor.
Greenways for All
Powered by the East Coast Greenway Alliance, Greenways for All is an effort focused on supporting communities from Maine to Florida - and beyond - in accessing funding for greenways and trails in this historic infrastructure moment.
Learn more
Greenway news and features
May 16, 2024
Video: Growing the Greenway in Palm Beach County
Read story
May 9, 2024
East Coast Greenway welcomes New Jersey & New York Manager Sofia Barandiaran
Read story
April 30, 2024
East Coast Greenway adds key connections in Pennsylvania, Massachusetts
Read story
Read more Greenway stories
15 favorite Greenway segments
It's hard to pick favorites, but here are 15 scenic stretches of the East Coast Greenway, moving north to south. We've included a few well-known stretches and some lesser known trail segments. (Note: mileage figures represent the East Coast Greenway segment, which may just be a portion of the entire trail.)
Maine: Eastern Trail, 20 miles. Just south of Portland, this trail runs south from Scarborough to West Kennebunk, mostly on crushed stone and asphalt. The highlight is the stretch through the stunning Scarborough Marsh, the largest saltwater marsh in Maine, where you’ll join kayakers and avid birders viewing peregrine falcons, ibis, and many other impressive birds.
Massachusetts: Charles River Bike Path, Boston-Waltham; 12.5 miles.
Join runners, walkers, commuting cyclists and bike-share tourists on this busy east-west winding greenway with great views of the Boston skyline and the campuses of Harvard and MIT.
Rhode Island: Washington Secondary Bike Path, Cranston-Coventry, 19 miles. Cross half the width of the Ocean State on this rail-trail with an urban feel at its eastern end to rural on the western end, with views of ponds and brick mills in town centers in between.
Connecticut: Three great trails tie for our favorite in the Nutmeg State. The Hop River Trail and Charter Oak Greenway take you west-to-east, Hartford to Willimantic, 33 miles, then the Farmington Canal Heritage Trail travels north-south, Simsbury-New Haven, 43 miles to the campus of Yale University. Travel through woods, marshes, over bridges and through parks.
New York: Hudson River Greenway, New York City, 12.4 mi.The Greenway is a great way to travel north and south on the island of Manhattan, with broad views of the Hudson River. This most populated stretch of East Coast Greenway begins at Battery Park and travels the length of the island to the George Washington Bridge. At rush hour, join the throngs: bicycle commuters and recreationalists, runners, and walkers.
New Jersey: D&R Canal Trail, New Brunswick-Trenton, 36 mi. This dirt and gravel path following the canal makes for beautiful, flat riding. Watch turtles sun themselves on logs, then plop in the water. Be aware of occasional flooding, and you may want to walk your bikes over the large cobblestones of the spillways.
Pennsylvania: John Heinz National Wildlife Refuge Trail, 8 miles. Family friendly dirt and crushed-stone trails through the nation’s first urban natural refuge, established in 1972, let you explore Tinicum Marsh, Darby Creek, meadows and woodlands. Find yourself mere steps away from 1-95 and the Philadelphia airport, and just a few miles from downtown Philly, but worlds away.
Delaware: Jack Markell Trail, Wilmington-New Castle, 8 miles. Start in downtown Wilmington with the riverwalk, head out to the DuPont Environmental Education Center, with its riveting view of the Christina River and wildlife refuge. A boardwalk, newly opened in 2018 as part of the Jack Markell Trail, takes you south to the charming historic town of New Castle, with another beautiful stretch of Greenway along the Delaware River.
Maryland: Torrey C. Brown Trail, Cockeysville, 7 miles. This charming dirt trail with a European feel follows the Big Gunpowder River with tall trees for shade and picturesque farms across the river. The trail continues north at Monkton while the East Coast Greenway heads east.
Maryland: B&A Trail, Annapolis to Baltimore, 12 miles. A well-loved and wellused paved trail following a former rail line through communities, parks, and wooded areas. Amenities such as restaurants and bike shops are convenient to the trail in a number of spots.
Maryland and Washington, DC: Anacostia River Trail, 13 miles. Pleasant, family friendly ride along the river through parks, with bike/pedestrian bridges. Heads northeast from the city towards Annapolis. You will be amazed by the natural scenery and animals you may spot so close to D.C. along this stretch of trail. In the capital, connect with the two miles of the Greenway along the National Mall, past the monuments and museums, and the Mount Vernon Trail across the Potomac, heading south into Virginia on a winding, well-loved trail.
Virginia: Virginia Capital Trail, Richmond - Jamestown, 52 miles. History, natural beauty, and amenities -- what’s not to love? Begin in Richmond, a city full of heritage and great eats. Explore the greenway downtown, passing by vibrant murals and sculptures, and check out a unique bike/pedestrian suspension bridge to Belle Isle in the James River. Then hop on the Virginia Capital Trail and follow the James River and State Route 5 southeast to Jamestown Settlement, offering a look at early American living. In between, pass battlegrounds and wildlife refuges, historic homes and parks.
North Carolina: Cross-Triangle Greenway, Durham-Cary-Raleigh, 45 miles. Leave downtown Durham at the trailhead of the American Tobacco Trail, across from the Durham Bulls baseball stadium, and enjoy traffic-free greenway to downtown Raleigh. The East Coast Greenway’s first complete metro area features city parks, the grounds of the state’s art museum, two universities, and scenic boardwalks through woods and marshes. Extend your trip east to Clayton on the Neuse River Trail for a 70-mile route, nearly all on spectacular greenways.
South Carolina: Spanish Moss Trail, Beaufort - Port Royal, 12 miles. This flat, scenic trail is perfect for a family ride. Ride through beautiful wetlands and past historic buildings, including straight through the middle of the old Beaufort Depot.
Florida: Amelia Island and Timucuan Trail, 6 miles and 5 miles. Begin at Peters Point Beachfront Park and follow the Amelia Island Trail alongside A1A on the shore. A short on-road section and bridge crossing lead you to the Timucuan Trail, running through Big Talbot and Little Talbot State Parks and offering beautiful views of the coast with side trails to beaches. Interesting ecological area created from the multiple rivers flowing into the Atlantic ocean.
Hide captions
Show captions
East Coast Greenway on Instagram
Follow us
East Coast Greenway By the Numbers
36% Complete
Approximately 1,050 miles of off-road, protected, multi-use paths are now designated as East Coast Greenway.
Visit our map
20 New Miles in 2023
We designated 13 new segments of the Greenway in 2023.
Learn more
$200+ Million Invested
More than $200 million was invested to complete the Greenway in 2023.
How can you help?
THANK YOU TO OUR MAJOR PARTNERS
Learn about supporting the East Coast Greenway
Join the Greenway family
Receive East Coast Greenway news directly in your inbox.
Contact Us
5826 Fayetteville Rd.
             Suite 210
             Durham ,  NC   27713
info@greenway.org
919-797-0619
Helpful Links
Financial Information
Media Inquiries
ECGA privacy policy
Together, let's grow the Greenway
Recent record-setting funding for design and construction goes directly to building the East Coast Greenway - as it should. The East Coast Greenway Alliance needs your support to continue our advocacy work that is fueling completion of the Greenway. The Alliance has a sustained track record of turning every dollar donated to our nonprofit into $100 in public infrastructure investment.

Invest today and support the growth of the East Coast Greenway from Maine to Florida.
Donate Today
