Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}

Body Text:
Home - Emorywood Orchards Homeowners Association, Inc. 00000518 - Charlotte, NC
Make a Quick Payment
Sign In
Register
Toggle navigation
Home
Community Information
Community Photos
Volunteer Opportunities
Legal Notices
Amenity Information
Amenity Reservations
Amenity Reservation Calendar
Contact Us
About Us
Report a Street Light Outage
Open A Support Request
Welcome to our website!
Our website has been designed to help keep you informed about your neighborhood so that you can feel at home and in touch with
your neighbors. Enjoy our wide range of features which provide you the ability to review your account and communicate with 
our management company.
Forgot Password?
Message
Welcome to the new Emorywood Orchards Homeowners Association, Inc. Website!
Download our MY HOA smartphone app today!
Join us on these social networks:
Watch our short video on how to register and use your Associations website
Website Services
These are just some of the features we currently offer on our website:
•
Safely pay your assessments online via eCheck or credit card.
•
Create, modify and view recurring assessment payments.
•
Access to your account transaction history in real-time.
•
Create, modify and view up to date ARC request information and Work Orders in real-time.
•
A directory listing for Homeowners, clubs, committees, teams, etc.
•
View your neighborhoods upcoming events in the calendar section.
•
Send emails directly to your association board and management company through your personal message center.
Online Payments
To make your payments online, please login to your homeowner account. (if you have not logged on before, please click on the register button and follow the instructions to obtain a username and password). Once you have registered online, please select the "Pay Assessments" button.
Learn About Your Community !
Check out this section to stay updated and know more about your neighborhood and community!
Stay Informed
Stay Informed!
Log into your account today and click on
'My Profile'
to update your contact information.
Complete Message
Sign In
P.O. Box 79032
Charlotte, NC 28271-0030
Phone :
(919) 741-5285
Email :
CSR@CommunityAssociationManagement.com
Powered by CINC Community Association Management Software
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Please ensure Javascript is enabled for purposes of
website accessibility
Version :  33.0.1.0.D
