Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'name': 'provider', 'content': 'snappages'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=Edge'}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'description', 'content': ''}

Body Text:
Empowerment Ministriess Christian Center - Home
Home
Connect
Get The EMCC App
Children
Youth
Women
Men
Seniors
Military
Help and Resources
Contact
Calendar
Next Steps
I'm New
Classes
Small Groups
Serve
Media
Livestream
On Demand
Podcast
Blog
Give
Helping You
Know God
FInd Freedom
Discover Purpose
And Make a a Difference
Psalm 34:8
Watch Online Now
Service Times
Sunday 10:30 am
11924 Klein Rd
Gulfport, MS 39503
Sermons on demand
Sermon library
Invite Someone To Church
Partner with us and invite someone to church! Be a witness and shine the light wherever you go! Download your digital invitation card below!
Download Digital Invitation
Latest Sermon
Our prayer is that you will be blessed and strengthened by the power of Jesus, and that you will live a life of abundance in fellowship, joy and liberty. Empowerment Ministries Christian Center is here for you to know God, find freedom, discover your purpose, and ultimately make a difference. It is not just a church; it is a fellowship of believers coming together to declare the glory of the Lord, and to celebrate Jesus as King. We study the Word, practice what we learn, and in the process grow together. We are here to help Empower You Completely. May God richly Bless You! We hope to see you soon!
Browse Sermons
Short Section on What We Believe
Get to know more about what makes us different.
Know God
Find Freedom
Discover Your Purpose
Make A Difference
Our prayer is that you will be blessed and strengthened by the power of Jesus, and that you will live a life of abundance in fellowship, joy and liberty. Empowerment Ministries Christian Center is here for you to know God, find freedom, discover your purpose, and ultimately make a difference. It is not just a church; it is a fellowship of believers coming together to declare the glory of the Lord, and to celebrate Jesus as King. We study the Word, practice what we learn, and in the process grow together. We are here to help Empower You Completely. May God richly Bless You! We hope to see you soon!
What we believe
Two Faces You'll See
Empowerment Ministries Christian Center (EMCC) was founded by Pastor Gregg S. Magee, Sr. in January of 2007.  During that time Bible study was held at Mt. Pleasant United Methodist Church on Friday nights at 7:00 p.m.  On June 10, 2007, Pastor Magee changed his service times to Sunday at 11:00 a.m. at Bayou View Apartments Recreation Center.  On January 27, 2008 Pastor Magee began having service at the Teen Extreme Center in downtown Gulfport at 9:30 a.m.  As the ministry began to grow and the hunger for God’s Word became greater Pastor Magee added a Thursday night Bible study on June 5, 2008.  On August 19, 2009, we purchased our first building, located at 1700 30th Avenue, Gulfport, MS. EMCC since has added weekly corporate prayer at 5:30 am on Wednesday mornings. Due to continued growth, and God’s favor, Pastor Magee added a second worship service in 2012 to accommodate members and visitors to EMCC
Irene T. Magee is a passionate wife, mother,  and administrator.  As the First Lady of Empowerment Ministries Christian Center she embodies virtue, poise and grace. Lady Magee acquired her Bachelor’s Degree in Mathematics from the University of Southern Mississippi. She has an endless love and tireless drive to unreservedly pour into the women and children of EMCC. One of her main objectives is to help women discover their God-given purpose, both in word and deed, and then aid them with instruction and wisdom founded upon the Word of God. She and Gregg have been married for 21 years and reside in Gulfport, MS, with their 5 beautiful children.
Meet the Team
Join us for
New Members Orientation
The EMCC New Members Orientation guides you to discover your redemptive purpose and live the life God created for you.  New Members Orientation  is made up of four steps that equip you to 1) connect to the church, 2) discover the strengths of your purposeful design, 3) develop your personal leadership, and 4) use your God-given gifts to make a difference in the lives of others.
The Growth Track happens every month in four consecutive Sundays, starting with Step One on the first Sunday of the month. We invite you to jump in at any time.
Learn More about the 4 step class
We'd Love to see you
In addition to our weekly worship service each Sunday at 10:30 AM there are weekly Bible study and small group meetings as well as scheduled special events. Check out our calendar and find a time tht you can visit with us and experience some good old-fashioned EMCC hospitality.
Plan A Visit
More Events
About
Our Mission & Vision
The mission of Empowerment Ministries Christian Center is to help people to Know God, Find Freedom, Discover Purpose, and to ultimately Make a Difference.
What We Believe
Our Story
Leadership
Service Times
Sunday Mornings
10:30am
Contact Us
11924 Klein Rd
Gulfport, MS 39503
Prayer Request
Follow Us
Implementation by Pastor Gregg S. Magee, Sr.
powered by
SnapPages
