Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'SKYPE_TOOLBAR', 'content': 'SKYPE_TOOLBAR_PARSER_COMPATIBLE'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 6.5.3'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WooCommerce 8.8.3'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Site Kit by Google 1.126.0'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://etaphibetasorority.com/wp-content/uploads/2023/01/cropped-EtaPhiBeta-FINAL-forweb-1-270x270.png'}

Body Text:
Menu
HOME
NATIONAL & REGION EVENTS
ABOUT US
President’s Message
Legacy
Education and Charitable Foundation
Grand Officers
Regions
Auxiliaries
Certified Vendors
PROGRAMS
Developmentally and Intellectually Disabled Activities
Women’s Programs and Activities
Youth Programs and Activities
Good Health Wins
MEMBERSHIP
Hazing Policy
Member Only Access
FOUNDATION – 501(c)3
CONTACT US
"Not For Ourselves,
But For Others"
Donate Now!
National Officers Eta Phi Beta Sorority, Incorporated
60 Year of Service Recognition Soror Amy Harris and Alice Douglas
National Queen Monica McClelland
19th President Colette McCurdy-Jackson and National President Sonda Bradfield
Past Presidents Reception Committee
Talent Show 1st Place Mid-Eastern Region; Janice Sinclair Regional Director
NCNW Tree of Hope Campaign and presentation of $100K donations; National President Sonda Bradfield
Past Presidents Robinson, Adair, and McCurdy-Jackson with the Zulu Tramps Dancers
The Gloria Chapmon Walk-A-Thon in New Orleans, LA 2022, Includes Members, Youth and Shads.
Our Mission
For over 80 years, Eta Phi Beta Sorority, Incorporated has provided services to improve the quality of life of individuals
Our Community
The purpose of Eta Phi Beta Sorority, Incorporated is to promote and develop closer fellowship between business and professional women
Join Us
We believe that students should have the opportunity to select a student organization of their choice, and to select organizations
NATIONAL PRESIDENT’S MESSAGE
SONDA BRADFIELD
On behalf of the members of Eta Phi Beta Sorority, Incorporated, Welcome!
As you peruse our website, I encourage you to learn more about our organization. As a Business and Professional Women’s Organization, we pride ourselves on being a Family-Oriented Sorority.
Read More
The Educational and Charitable Foundation of Eta Phi Beta Sorority, Incorporated Grand Chapter (Foundation) is a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt entity, which was created to provide a sustaining source of funding for scholarships and charitable purposes. The Foundation is supported by charitable donations, grants, individual gifts, ROIs and fund raisers. The President of Eta Phi Beta Sorority, Incorporated, is also the President of the Foundation.
Privacy Policy
|
Terms and Conditions
Copyright © 2014-2023. All Rights Reserved | Eta Phi Beta Sorority, Incorporated
Manage Cookie Consent
To provide the best experiences, we use technologies like cookies to store and/or access device information. Consenting to these technologies will allow us to process data such as browsing behavior or unique IDs on this site. Not consenting or withdrawing consent, may adversely affect certain features and functions.
Functional
Functional
Always active
The technical storage or access is strictly necessary for the legitimate purpose of enabling the use of a specific service explicitly requested by the subscriber or user, or for the sole purpose of carrying out the transmission of a communication over an electronic communications network.
Preferences
Preferences
The technical storage or access is necessary for the legitimate purpose of storing preferences that are not requested by the subscriber or user.
Statistics
Statistics
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for statistical purposes.
The technical storage or access that is used exclusively for anonymous statistical purposes. Without a subpoena, voluntary compliance on the part of your Internet Service Provider, or additional records from a third party, information stored or retrieved for this purpose alone cannot usually be used to identify you.
Marketing
Marketing
The technical storage or access is required to create user profiles to send advertising, or to track the user on a website or across several websites for similar marketing purposes.
Manage options
Manage services
Manage {vendor_count} vendors
Read more about these purposes
Accept
Deny
View preferences
Save preferences
View preferences
{title}
{title}
{title}
Manage consent
