Meta Information:
{'name': 'Description', 'content': 'Eternal Life Missionary Baptist Church is a community of believers that gathers in faith, serves in love, and proclaims hope through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Our hope and prayer is that our church is where everyone can worship, learn, grow, and serve together. We exist to serve the Savior and reach the world!'}
{'name': 'Keywords', 'content': 'Eternal Life Missionary Baptist Church ( ELMBC ), liberian church in philadelphia, african church in philadelphia'}
{'name': 'Robots', 'content': 'All'}
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}

Body Text:
Eternal Life Missionary Baptist Church ( ELMBC )
Eternal Life Missionary Baptist Church
Welcome to Eternal Life Missionary Baptist Church - Philadelphia, PA
Eternal Life Missionary Baptist Church ( ELMBC ) is a community of believers that gathers in faith, serves in love, and proclaims hope through our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Our hope and prayer is that our church is where everyone can worship, learn, grow, and serve together.  We exist to serve the Savior and reach the world!
Come and join us for worship on Sunday mornings at 11:00 AM. You are invited to share in hearing the Word of God and experience the love of Jesus Christ.  No matter who you are or what you've been through, Christ is always ready to Welcome you home, and so are we.
At ELMBC we are more focused on who we worship, Christ our Lord, than how we worship. We teach directly from the Bible in a relevant way that challenges you to become more like Jesus. You will also find us to be a missionary church that believes in faith with action. We reach out with compassion to the needs of people in our community and around the world. We sincerely thank you for visiting our website and look forward to seeing you on Sunday. May the Almighty God Continue to bless you.
Why you should visit Eternal Life Missionary Baptist Church
Our Love for Christ flows beyond the four walls of  the Church, making it a lifestyle
Opportunity to grow spiritually using your talents and gifts
Great Worship Music
Warm and authentic people with a welcoming  atmosphere conducive to building lasting relationships
Relevant and practical teaching of the Word of God
You can discover real life answers to real life  questions - It is a place of encouragement and knowledge
Well planned and organized service
©2013 Eternal Life Missionary Baptist Church - Philadelphia - PA - All Rights Reserved
-
Website By Iron Web Designs
-
Email Login
