Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=UTF-8'}
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0', 'name': 'viewport'}
{'content': 'IE=edge,chrome=1', 'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://walton.uark.edu/images/blog-images/news/migrated/Gary_Peters_Accounting-672x372-4792242.jpg'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Peters Elected President of Federation of Schools of Accountancy'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://walton.uark.edu/news/posts/archive/peters-elected-president-of-federation-of-schools-of-accountancy.php'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'Gary Peters, professor and department chair of the William Dillard Department of Accounting at the Sam M. Walton College of Business, has been elected president of the\xa0Federation of Schools of Accountancy.'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'article'}
{'property': 'og:updated_time', 'content': '2023-10-06T08:44:08.830428536-07:00'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'name': 'twitter:url', 'content': 'https://walton.uark.edu/news/posts/archive/peters-elected-president-of-federation-of-schools-of-accountancy.php'}
{'name': 'twitter:title', 'content': 'Peters Elected President of Federation of Schools of Accountancy'}
{'name': 'twitter:description', 'content': 'Gary Peters, professor and department chair of the William Dillard Department of Accounting at the Sam M. Walton College of Business, has been elected president of the\xa0Federation of Schools of Account'}
{'name': 'twitter:image', 'content': 'https://walton.uark.edu/images/blog-images/news/migrated/Gary_Peters_Accounting-672x372-4792242.jpg'}

Body Text:
Peters Elected President of Federation of Schools of Accountancy | 
							Walton College |
						University of Arkansas
Skip navigation
University of Arkansas
Walton College
The Sam M. Walton College of Business
Walton Directory
Search UARK
About Walton
Walton Directory
Links to important University of Arkansas pages
University of Arkansas
A-Z Index
Blackboard Learn
Campus Map
UAConnect
Directory
Email
myApps
Workday
Toggle navigation
Main Menu
Future Students
Why Walton?
Discover why students choose the Sam M. Walton College of Business.
Life in Fayetteville
What's so great about Fayetteville and Northwest Arkansas? Find out.
About Walton College
The Sam M. Walton College of Business has grown to become the state's premier college of business, as well as a nationally competitive business school.
Visit Campus
Come take a tour.
Undergrad Programs
For students seeking Bachelor's Degrees:
High School Students
Transfer Students
Undergraduate Program Overview
Fully Online Degrees
Costs and Funding
Honors Program
Business Living Learning Communities
Apply Now
Fleischer Scholars Program
A free summer program for Arkansas high school students who are interested in studying business.
Learn more...
Graduate Programs
For students seeking Masters, Ph.D, and Certificate Programs:
Graduate School of Business
MBA Program
Executive MBA Program
Healthcare Executive MBA Program
Master of Professional Accounting
Master of Accountancy
Master of Business Analytics
Master of Information Systems
Master of Finance
Master of Supply Chain Management
Graduate Certificates
Ph.D Programs
Admissions Information
Apply Now
Current Students
Campus Tools
Common web resources
Blackboard
UAConnect
Student Email
Campus Directory
Campus Maps
Academic Calendars
Jobs: Career Link
Resources and Opportunities for Walton Students
We're here to help. Walton College distinguishes itself by providing outstanding student support.
Walton Advising Center
Advising is key to your success.
Walton Career Connections
Assistance with internships and job placement.
Walton Study Abroad
Learn about summer and semester study abroad options.
Scholarship Information
Financial help for Walton students, and links to campus resources
Diversity Programs
Committed to increasing students’ awareness of diversity and increasing the extent to which they value its significance.
Student Engagement
Develop socially, personally, and professionally through an enhanced collegiate experience!
Business Communication Lab
Boost your written and oral communications skills.
Join Student Clubs and Organizations
Find your passion. Connect with students and industry.
Business Living Learning Community
Learn together. A living community for business students.
Walton Honors Program
For high-achieving students who exemplify academic excellence, extraordinary leadership potential, and a sense of civic duty to their community.
Academics
Accounting
We develop outstanding students and faculty who meaningfully impact the global accounting community.
Learn more...
Economics
Understand and adapt to a changing economic environment.
Learn more...
Finance
Student-managed investment funds. Experienced faculty. Corporate connections.
Learn more...
Information Systems
Work with business leaders to determine how technology can solve problems and create opportunities.
Learn more...
Management
Preparing students for positions of leadership in organizations of all sizes.
Learn more...
Marketing
Create. Communicate. Deliver. Learn about product planning, distribution, promotion, and pricing strategies.
Learn more...
Strategy, Entrepreneurship, & Venture Innovation
Preparing students to be tomorrow’s business, community, and academic innovators.
Learn more...
Supply Chain Management
Northwest Arkansas is the beating heart of the world's supply chain industry.
Learn more...
View All Programs
Undergraduate Programs
Graduate Programs
Executive Education
China Programs: Soochow University
Noteworthy Walton Programs
Entrepreneurship Program
Leadership Walton
Honors Program
Study Abroad
Internship Credit
Enterprise Systems
Business Living Learning Community
Portfolio Management
Research & Outreach
Walton Insights
Research and ideas from faculty at the Sam M. Walton College of Business.
Be Epic Podcast
Weekly interviews with innovators and business mavericks to discuss strategy, leadership and entrepreneurship. Hosted by Dean Matthew Waller.
McMillon Innovation Studio
Home to a community of interdisciplinary undergraduate student teams that provides prototyping space for students and faculty across campus to connect and create together.
Behavioral Business Research Lab
A world-class, interdisciplinary research facility for studying human behavior and decision making.
Research & Outreach Initiatives
Walton College works to address important business and economic issues through discovery, integration, application, and dissemination of knowledge.
Arkansas Impact Investing Initiative
Business Integrity Leadership Initiative
Center for Business and Economic Research
Customer Centric Leadership Initiative
Executive Education
Garrison Financial Institute
Retail Advisory Board
Supply Chain Management Research Center
Tyson Center for Faith and Spirituality in the Workplace
Alumni & Friends
Dean's Executive Advisory Board
Prominent business leaders who actively support the Dean in advancing the mission and vision of the Sam M. Walton College of Business.
Dean's Alumni Advisory Council
A diverse group of Walton College alumni who are ambassadors for the college and who use their experience and insight to advancement the college's goals.
Arkansas Business Hall of Fame
Designed to honor, preserve and perpetuate the names and outstanding accomplishments of business leaders who have brought lasting fame to Arkansas.
The Lasting Impact of Your Gifts
Student scholarships, endowed chairs, professorships, and new program offerings are positioning us competitively on the national stage.
All of this thanks to the generosity of the Walton Family Charitable Support Foundation and the many generous donors before and after its gift.
Invest in Our Students
For nearly a century, the Walton College has excelled because of benefactors like you.
Corporate Support
Get involved through your company. You can:
Recruit Walton students
.
Connect with a Walton
outreach center
.
Sponsor an event, or bring your meeting or event to our
conference venue
.
Make an in-kind
donation
.
Peters Elected President of Federation of Schools of Accountancy
U of A
Walton College
News
August 23,  2021
Share this via:
Gary Peters, professor and department chair of the William Dillard Department of Accounting
                        at the Sam M. Walton College of Business, has been elected president of the
Federation of Schools of Accountancy
, a national professional association dedicated to accounting education, effective
                        August 1, 2021.
“Serving in this capacity speaks to Gary’s professional reputation, achievements and
                        efforts to promote the accounting discipline and the University of Arkansas,” said
                        Matt Waller, Walton College dean. “He continues a strong tradition of national accounting
                        leadership contributions by the department and in the state of Arkansas.”
Gary Peters, chair of the William Dillard Department of Accounting
“Promoting leadership that advances trust in the accounting profession, benefits students,
                        and furthers the impact of graduate accounting programs have been longstanding drivers
                        in my career,” Peters said. “I am honored to hold the role of president and represent
                        the University of Arkansas.”
Peters holds the S. Robson Walton Endowed Chair in the Sam M. Walton College of Business
                        at the University of Arkansas. He joined the University of Arkansas in 2003 and served
                        as director of the master’s program from 2006-2016. Peters was selected as department
                        chair in 2016. He earned his Ph.D. in Accounting from the University of Oregon.
Prior presidents of the Federation of Schools of Accountancy from University of Arkansas
                        include former accounting professors Karen Pincus and Jack White.
The Federation of Schools of Accountancy was established in 1978 with the goal of
                        developing accounting programs as members of a professional discipline and to promote
                        and support high-quality accredited graduate programs. Membership in the federation
                        includes departments and schools of accounting who deliver separately accredited graduate
                        accounting programs.
About the William Dillard Department of Accounting:
The department holds separate accreditation by Association to Advance Collegiate
                        Schools of Business (AACSB) International. The department offers undergraduate degrees
                        in accounting, a Master of Professional Accounting, Master of Accountancy and an Accounting
                        Ph.D. It holds a longstanding tradition of service to the accounting community in
                        Arkansas and the nation.
Related Posts:
Walton College Hosts Accounting Career Awareness Program
EPIC Spotlight: Sebastian Schuetz
EPIC Spotlight: Amanda Dooly
Accounting Research Conference Sparks Collaboration
EPIC Spotlight: Tracy Liu
Walton College
Since its founding at the University of Arkansas in 1926, the Sam M.
                     	Walton College
                     	of Business has grown to become the state's premier college of business – as well
                     	as a nationally competitive business school.
Learn more...
Recent Posts
Former Walmart EVP Joe Metzger Joins U of A Supply Chain Management Faculty
Metzger joins the J.B. Hunt Transport Department of Supply Chain Management with 36 years of exceptional performance at top companies, leading strategy, planning capital and automation investment.
April 5, 2024 | By
Nathan Bramwell
Vote for Walton College's Top Ranked Supply Chain Management Program
Arkansas’ program has remained the top program in Gartner’s rankings since 2020. The rankings reflect excellence in three specific areas: industry value, program scope and program size.
January 30, 2024
Vivian Reese Hill Named Assistant Director of MS Finance Program
Hill will assist in the marketing and recruitment of students for the lucrative one-year, full-time graduate program.
January 19, 2024 | By
Lori McLemore
The Students and the Graduate
Morph Media wins the Integrated Marketing class competition with the Graduate Hotel!
January 18, 2024 | By
Lori McLemore
U of A Students Take Top Honors at International Model United Nations
In November, 14 students from the U of A competed at the International Model United Nations conference and left with five top honors.
January 17, 2024 | By
Lori McLemore
About Walton
|
Academic Degree Programs
|
Faculty & Staff Directory
|
Intranet
UNIVERSITY OF ARKANSAS
Admissions
Academics
Campus Life
Research
Athletics
About
Like us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Watch us on YouTube
See us on Instagram
Join us on Pinterest
Connect with us on LinkedIn
1 University of Arkansas
Fayetteville, AR 72701
479-575-2000
NEWS
UPCOMING EVENTS
APPLY
Online
Schedule a
VISIT
Make a
GIFT
Emergency Information
Report a Concern
Title IX
Accessibility
Privacy Policy
Contact Us
Jobs
Mobile
Edit webpage
