Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}

Body Text:
The First United Metaphysical Chapel
The First United Metaphysical Chapel
Skip to content
Home
About Us
Metaphysical Principles
Divine Metaphysics
Videos
Definitions
Events
Support Us
Home
** Until further notice all chapel services are being suspended do to the new regulations surrounding COVID-19.  Please watch over each another and provide help when you can. We will update this space when we have any additional information. **
The aim of the First United Metaphysical Chapel is the glorification of God through worship and service. Our purpose is to teach and practice the Science, Philosophy and Religion of Divine Metaphysics as a serene way of life. We are a Spiritualist organization that accepts and teaches the spiritual truths of Jesus the Christ and other Holy Avatars as recorded in the Holy Bible and other Sacred Scripture.
Serving the areas of Bahama, Butner, Cary, Creedmoor, Clayton, Durham, Garner, Henderson, Hillsborough, Oxford, Morrisville, Raleigh, Roxboro & Timberlake NC. and beyond.
Where we are:
9602 Roxboro Rd., Bahama, N.C. 27503 ph. 919-471-0351We are located just 10 miles north of I-85 (Duke St. Exit 176 B) 501 North. One mile north of Bahama Rd. on right next to Black Horse Run. Also South of Roxboro NC only 18 miles on left. It’s a beautiful scenic drive.
Church Programs:
Sunday
11:00 am
Guided Meditation, Healing Service, Laying on of Hands
11:30 am
Worship Service, Sermon & Spirit Messages
12:45 pm
Lunch and Fellowship downstairs. All are welcome, please join us!
Wednesday
6:30 pm
Healing Service, Reiki, Laying on of Hands
w/Mona Wilson
7:30 pm
Mediumship Development Class* (
$10.00
)
w/Rev. Connie Graddy
* For more information on Sunday services, Wednesday night classes or Wedding information please contact Rev. Connie Beth Graddy (336-364-1733). For more information on mediumship
click here
Upcoming events:
Please visit our
Events
page, like us on
Facebook
or join our
Meetup Group
.
Topics of Interest:
Spiritualism, Divine Metaphysics, Healing, Reiki, Clairvoyance, Mediumship, Self Awareness
Clergy & Officers:
Rev. Connie Beth Graddy
ph. 336-364-1733
Rev. Doris Jean Apple
Stanley Graddy
E-mail:
sagraddy@tfumc.net
Weddings:
www.whisperingwillowweddingchapel.com
Sign up for the TFUMC email list
Please
subscribe to our email list
if you would like to stay informed of our activities. We have recently switched to mail chimp, which allows you to opt in or out without our intervention.
The First United Metaphysical Chapel
Proudly powered by WordPress.
