Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'name': 'provider', 'content': 'snappages'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=Edge'}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': 'Fort Myers Church, First Assembly, First Assembly of God Fort Myers, FAMFM, FAOG, Assemblies of God, AG, Russ Hurst, Dan Betzer'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'We are a church dedicated to reaching people, teaching them the Word, and sending them out to make disciples! A generational church where Jesus is here and anything is possible.'}

Body Text:
First Assembly of God | Fort Myers - Home
nvlnvdfblbhofghbohdofbph
Home
I'm New
Prayer Request
Livestream
Events
Media
Watch
Sermons
Best of Betzer
Connect
Español
Kid's Church
Youth Church
Young Adults
Arts Academy
FMCS
Top Notch
Next Steps
Serve
Give
OUR LEAD PASTORS
Thanks so much for connecting with us! One of our values here at First Assembly is the importance of RELATIONSHIPS, and we believe it is vital to not only know God and make Him known but grow in him TOGETHER as a community. We have something for all ages during our Sunday morning services (9 & 11), or on Wednesdays at 7 p.m. and encourage you to join us during these service times and experience life together through worship, God's Word, and a visit under the portico for some amazing coffee (Sundays only). Our prayer is that you would experience the life changing JOY, HOPE, and LOVE that only Jesus can bring! Can't wait to see you soon!
In His Love,
Pastors Russ & Cari Hurst
Watch the l
atest Sunday message!
Pastor Russ Hurst
4-27-24
WELCOME
FROM
OUR
LEAD PASTOR
Thanks so much for connecting with us! One of our values here at First Assembly is the importance of RELATIONSHIPS, and we believe it is vital to not only know God and make Him known but grow in him TOGETHER as a community. We have something for all ages during our Sunday morning services and encourage you to join us during these service times and experience life together through worship, God's Word, and a visit under the portico for some amazing coffee (Sundays only). Our prayer is that you would experience the life changing JOY, HOPE, and LOVE that only Jesus can bring! My family and I look forward to seeing you soon!
In His Love,
Pastor Russ
Google Play and the App Store
Privacy
Service Times
Sunday Mornings
9AM and 11AM
Español
11AM
Wednesday Nights
7PM
Follow Us
First Assembly of God
4701 Summerlin Rd.
Fort Myers, FL 33919
(239) 936-6277
Office Hours
Monday – Thursday: 8:30AM – 12PM and 1PM – 5PM
Friday – Sunday: Closed
powered by
SnapPages
