Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'content': 'Providing resources, education, and opportunities to foster on-ramps of excellence for future generations of innovators and creators in the Coastal Bend.', 'name': 'description'}
{'content': 'Home | Frazier Family Foundation', 'property': 'og:title'}
{'content': 'Providing resources, education, and opportunities to foster on-ramps of excellence for future generations of innovators and creators in the Coastal Bend.', 'property': 'og:description'}
{'content': 'Home | Frazier Family Foundation', 'property': 'twitter:title'}
{'content': 'Providing resources, education, and opportunities to foster on-ramps of excellence for future generations of innovators and creators in the Coastal Bend.', 'property': 'twitter:description'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'content': 'summary_large_image', 'name': 'twitter:card'}
{'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1', 'name': 'viewport'}

Body Text:
Home | Frazier Family Foundation
Loading...
Who We Are
How We Help
Resources
News
Contact Us
contact form
We'd love to hear from you, please fill out the form.
Thank you! Your submission has been received!
Oops! Something went wrong while submitting the form.
Contact
Evergreen Street 27
San Francisco, Cal 90210
800 123-456
hi@website.com
CATEGORIES
News
Stories
Visit news
Read more
Stories of Impact: 2023 Grant Recipients
1
No items found.
No items found.
3
Providing on-ramps of
excellence
for future generations
Learn more
$2.09M
Total Distributions
$1.9M
grant support
31
partner programs
$175K
Scholarship support
17
Scholarships supported
2023 Recap
As we look back on 2023, we’re moved by the impact our grant recipients made on the Coastal Bend community.  We partnered with 20 organizations that share our dedication to breaking ceilings. Together we're making a lasting impact on the Coastal Bend community.
READ more
O
ur Mission
Providing resources, education, and opportunities to foster on-ramps of excellence for future generations of innovators and creators in the Coastal Bend.
Areas of Impact
Environmental Awareness and conservation
We believe the legacy of the Frazier Family Foundation is directly connected to how we, as a society, leave the world for future generations. The Frazier Family lineage consist of those who have depended on and cherished both the land and the sea for survival, exploration, and adventure. Therefore, we consider this cause an integral and invaluable use of the foundation's resources.
Learn More
Areas of Impact
Education and The Arts
The Frazier Family is passionate about fostering creativity through many different forms. To support innovation and growth, we invest in programs that encourage our youth to expand their imaginations and think critically outside of the box.
Learn More
Areas of Impact
Child protection and welfare
Many of the issues faced in society can be traced back to fatherlessness or considerable instability inside the home. The Frazier Family Foundation has made this problem a central focus for outreach. Therefore, we have chosen to partner with entities whose aim is prevention, rescue, and restoration for children and teens in these unfortunate situations.
Learn More
Areas of Impact
Pathways to college and entrepreneurship
The Frazier Family Foundation allots significant resources toward on-ramps of excellence each year. The window between adolescence and adulthood is vital to a successful future, and the foundation serves as a means to help bridge the gap. (Image provided by Texas A&M University – Corpus Christi)
Learn More
Areas of Impact
ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS AND CONSERVATION
EDUCATION AND THE ARTS
CHILD PROTECTION AND WELFARE
PATHWAYS TO COLLEGE AND ENTREPRENEURSHIP
Learn more
Through grants, scholarships, and partnerships with other like-minded organizations, the Frazier Family Foundation offers individuals access to programs that provide essential needs and opportunities.
Impacting the Coastal Bend
"The Frazier Family Foundation has quickly proven itself to be a community leader in transformation and innovation. We're so honored to work with you as we grow the vibrancy of the Coastal Bend."
–
Erin Smith, Texas A&M University–Corpus Christi
(Image provided by Texas A&M University – Corpus Christi)
Learn More
News
Stories of Impact: 2023 Grant Recipients
read more
News
Camp DPI with TAMUCC Graphic Design
read more
Providing on-ramps of excellence for future generations
Menu
Home
Resources
Who We Are
News
How We Help
Contact Us
Contact
807 N Upper Broadway, Ste 300
Corpus Christi, TX 78401
888-123-456
info@frazierff.org
501(c)(3) Tax ID/EIN: 83-1952912
