Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'MobileOptimized', 'content': 'width'}
{'name': 'HandheldFriendly', 'content': 'true'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Drupal 7 (https://www.drupal.org)'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Steve Freeman Ministries'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.stevefreemanministries.org/'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Steve Freeman Ministries'}

Body Text:
Steve Freeman Ministries |
Skip to main content
For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
John 3:16
Visit us on Facebook!
Home
About Steve
Endorsements
Contact Steve Freeman Ministries
Steve Freeman Ministries
For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever, believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.
John 3:16
Partner with us!
Versatile Ministry
One of the things that pastors love about Steve, is his varied avenues of ministry. As a preacher, singer, musician, and song writer, Steve uses all his gifts to introduce the lost to Jesus and to encourage the body of Christ.
See more
What do Pastors say?
Steve is an encouragement to my soul every time I see him. Faced with some physical disadvantages, Steve has determined across the years that no one would ever hear him complain about the grace of God.
See more
Steve and Lisa
Steve met his beautiful wife Lisa, the summer before his last semester in seminary. The following year in September, 94’ she and Steve were married and she became not only his wife, but also his partner in Ministry.
See more
May
«
»
S
M
T
W
T
F
S
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
Site Menu
Ministries
Steve's Family
Endorsements
Financial Information
Event Schedule
Publicity Downloads
Become a Partner, Donate
Videos
My Story
The Finished Picture
Happiness or Holiness?
Steve Freeman Ministries
Would you consider helping Steve Freeman Ministries by making a donation? Your prayers and financial support help us to take the Gospel to the world. While you may not be able to physically go with me to every place that I go, through your prayers and financial support, you actually are going with me. Not only that, you are helping me to impact the world. I appreciate you being willing to partner with Steve Freeman Ministries!!!
Steve Freeman Ministries:
It is hard to believe that I am in my 31th year in Full Time Evangelism. Every year is different, but I am so thankful for every opportunity God gives me to proclaim His goodness and love to a world that needs Him so. While there are many uncertainties in this world, one thing I do know is that God is still saving and changing lives, and I pray that this will be our greatest year of ministry.
Ministry Update:
I hope each of you who follow, pray for, and support our ministry are doing well. I am certainly praying that 2024 will be a better year for each of us. I am thankful that churches are opening up in greater numbers this year and I pray that trend continues. The last few years have been a challenge for all of us, but I am thankful for all that God is doing, and how churches have really been able to impact their communities as there have been so many opportunities to minister to hurting families and individuals. While I had many revivals and preaching opportunities get cancelled because of Covid lockdowns, or restrictions in the past few years, I am thankful that God is not restricted in His ability to reach and help people. God is not locked down, and he makes a way where there seems to be no way. I am thankful for every opportunity that God is giving me this year to preach and sing, and I pray that each revival, concert, testimony service, school assembly, camp, retreat, harvest day, banquet, or one day special event will be fruitful for the Lord. I am so grateful for each of you who lift us up to the Lord in prayer and financially support our ministry. Thank you all so much!
Romans 8:28
And we know that in all things God works for the good of those who love him, who have been called according to his purpose.
Health Update
In 2009 I was diagnosed with Testicular Cancer. I have said many times that I always believed that having Cerebral Palsy was enough...I felt like I didn't need any other physical challenges or difficulties, but apparently God had other plans for my life. I am so humbled and blessed to be able to say that I finished my last Chemotherapy treatment in December, 2009. Cancer touches so many families and I am so blessed to be where I am today. I am feeling good and the doctors say that there is no evidence that there is any cancer in my body. My doctors have monitored my progress very carefully and I am thankful for them. I have seen God use my cancer diagnosis as a means to be able to share God's love with so many precious people who are battling cancer at this time.
I don't know what the future holds, but I pray that I will be faithful to exalt Jesus no matter what. I appreciate your prayers for my continued health and strength. We are so grateful for you who partner with us in ministry with your prayers and financial support. You continue to encourage us and enable us to impact the world as we continue Preaching Christ, Reaching People.
In His Love,
Steve Freeman
Steve Freeman Ministries
510 MacArthur Ave.
Colonial Heights, Va. 23834
804.520.6959
Matthew 5:43
Ye have heard that it was said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor, and hate thine enemy:
See All...
Tidbit
Growing up with cerebral palsy wasn’t easy and Steve will tell you that because he walked different than most people, he was made fun of, a lot. He would come home from school many days simply in tears because of how children would make fun of him. He would continually ask the question to his parents, “why did God make me this way?” His mom would always tell him that, “God loves you very much, and has allowed you to be made the way you are for a very special reason.”
At the age of nine, he began to understand a little more about God’s love, and he realized that he needed to be saved. He walked down the aisle of his church the best he could, and invited Jesus into his heart.
Support the Ministry
How can you support us?
There are four ways:
1. Prayer Support Partners
2. Monthly Financial Support
3. Annual Financial Support
4. Tell others about this site
Contact Us
for more information!
This is just a place holder block.
Contact Information
Steve Freeman Ministries
510 MacArthur Ave.
Colonial Heights, Va. 23834
(804) 520-6959
This is just a
place holder block.
Login
Copyright 2009 Steve Freeman Ministries - All rights reservered
