Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'index, follow, max-image-preview:large, max-snippet:-1, max-video-preview:-1'}
{'property': 'og:locale', 'content': 'en_US'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Fresh Life - Freshlife'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'Welcome to FreshlifeFreshlife, a Health & Wellness Boutique, is your #1 resource for healthy livingPartner With UsFreshlife is the place to go for answers you can trust and a plan that works for you.Seeking Health?Let us help you be well!'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://freshlife.com/'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Freshlife'}
{'property': 'article:modified_time', 'content': '2023-07-14T23:21:15+00:00'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://freshlife.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/12/Sandy-e1622624362394.jpg'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'name': 'google-site-verification', 'content': 'kkFP_ON02ElZFznmMavP1BO3QkWiDbnlFni4doyUxM8'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Elementor 3.21.5; features: e_optimized_assets_loading, e_optimized_css_loading, additional_custom_breakpoints; settings: css_print_method-external, google_font-enabled, font_display-auto'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://freshlife.com/wp-content/uploads/2018/09/fresh.png'}

Body Text:
Fresh Life - Freshlife
Search
Our Location
2350 East Third Street Suite #4
Williamsport PA 17701
We are open
Tuesday thru Friday 9-5
Saturday 10-4
Smoothie Bar Open-4
Stay In Touch
570-322-8280
Menu
Freshlife
About
About
Employment
Staff
Appointment
Services
Sauna
Smoothie Bar
Catalog
CBD Oil
Contact Us
Username
Password
Remember Me
Forgot Your Password?
Welcome to Freshlife
Freshlife, a Health & Wellness
Boutique, is your #1 resource for healthy living
Partner With Us
Freshlife is the place to go for answers you can trust and a plan that works for you.
Seeking Health?
Let us help you be well!
Previous slide
Next slide
Supplements
We take the guesswork out of choosing which Vitamins and Supplements are right for you!
Customer Service
Our friendly, knowledgeable team will listen to your questions and concerns, and make suggestions to help you achieve your personal health and wellness goals.
Store
We are passionate about providing an extraordinary customer service experience and preferred products to support health, in a fresh, fun and friendly atmosphere. We are committed to ensuring that all who visit Freshlife feel welcome and supported on their wellness journey.
Our Smoothie Bar
Our Smoothie & Juice Bar team will help you be healthy with ease and convenience. We purchase the finest ingredients and supplies needed to make delicious, fresh smoothies, juices, bowls and shots part of your daily routine – and we cleanup afterwards, allowing you to go about your day. All of our menu items are designed with your best health and wellness in mind. We use only whole-food non-GMO ingredients, with no yogurt, concentrates, syrups, mixes or added sugars. We use only fresh or freshfrozen fruits and vegetables (organic and local when possible), superfoods, and dietary supplements to supercharge your day. We even make our own fresh hemp seed “milk”.
While we are not a certified allergen free establishment, we are sensitive to food allergies and intolerances. All of our menu selections can be made without added gluten, dairy, nuts or soy; however, those ingredients are present in our store. Please communicate the severity of your allergy or intolerance to our team.
Check Out Our Menu
What
Clients
Say
I have been a fan and grateful customer of Freshlife for 30+ years. Over this time, the knowledgeable, friendly staff have assisted me with the various issues/conditions which have presented and with which they have been able to help me. I am grateful for their professionalism, their helpfulness when you are in the store, their knowledge to address the pertinent questions, and the general atmosphere of customer care and concern which exists at Freshlife under the excellent management staff's direction. I hope Freshlife will always be there for my improved and better health with their help! Thank you so much for all you have done for me over all these years!
Barb Reilly
"After using the Freshlife sauna, I'm more energized. It has provided pain relief and reduced swelling in my knee...my skin is clear due to the detoxification process of the sauna. My digestive issues are so much better...the heat eliminates toxins from your body. I am a big fan of the far infrared sauna! Thank you, Freshlife, for being the leader in wellness in our area!"
Dawn Cool
To me, the best reason to shop at a business is their employees. Those that work at Freshlife are simply the best. Friendly, warm, welcoming & knowledgeable about the goods & services they offer. Our area needs this shop & I love that it is locally-owned & also that it stocks products from local vendors too.
Erin Steinbacher
"I'm so grateful to Freshlife for using such healthy ingredients, customizing my liquid-meals to my dietary preferences, knowing just what to put in, and best of all, always sending me on my way with a dose of love to boot."
Christine Kight
"It is never easy trying to determine if a product is right for you. The Wellness Coach who assisted me did an amazing job educating me on the different ways the Great Lakes Hydrolysate Collagen Powder could be used, and the many potential benefits to me. I can honestly say that I am so pleasantly surprised by the results I receive while using this product."
Dawn Remsnyder
Previous
Next
How
It
Works?
Start Your Journey Today
Follow The Regime
Observance of your own regime of the day, nutrition and exercise is the key to success.
Work for Result
Physical exercise is also important for your health, beauty and well-being.
Follow The Regime
Only natural organic food will make our body healthy and strong.
Follow The Regime
See how your life becomes a pleasant adventure, full of bright colors and fun activities.
Concierge Service
Unable to visit the store? Wish to place an order from our extensive catalog, delivered to your front door? The appropriate member of our friendly, knowledgeable team will listen to your questions and concerns, make suggestions for your personal health and wellness, and walk you through our ordering process.
Call our Concierge Service today!
570-322-8280
Sauna
People have been using saunas all around the world for thousands of years for their physical, mental and emotional benefits. Not only do they feel amazing, they also:
Relieve stress
Relax muscles
Soothe aches and pains
Flush toxins
Cleanse skin
Induce a deeper sleep
Improve cardiovascular performance
Burn calories, and Fight illness
Our sauna is made of basswood which creates a hypoallergenic  and self-sanitizing space. This hot, dry environment is designed to open up your pores, detoxify your skin and relax your muscles.
Read More
Join us for our NEW Lyme Disease Support Group
Join us for our NEW Lyme Disease Support Group Chronic illnesses have become more prevalent in recent years. It’s so common to hear of or witness someone faced with the unpredictable onset of recurring symptoms and the adverse effects of
Read More »
July 14, 2023
No Comments
Aging Well with a Healthy Diet
Aging Well with a Healthy Diet What is a healthy diet? According to the dictionary, a healthy diet maintains or improves our health. Its purpose is to provide our body with proper nutrition, fluid, macronutrients like protein, micronutrients like fiber,
Read More »
June 22, 2022
No Comments
Aging Well with Better Sleep, Part 2
Aging Well with Better Sleep Part 2 Last week, we covered the importance of getting a good night’s sleep, including REM sleep. Today we would like to share more practical pointers on how to improve your sleep quality naturally.  Avoid
Read More »
June 22, 2022
No Comments
Request an Appointment
Call
570-322-8280
to Schedule Appointment or Fill out Form for Call Back.
feel free to
CONTACT US
RIGHT NOW
Stop in and visit the store!
2350 East Third Street Suite #4
Williamsport PA 17701
570-322-8280
contactus@freshlife.com
Recent
Articles
Join us for our NEW Lyme Disease Support Group
July 14, 2023
Aging Well with a Healthy Diet
June 22, 2022
Aging Well with Better Sleep, Part 2
June 22, 2022
Article Archive
Facebook
Instagram
Our
Newsletter
First Name
Last Name
Email
CAPTCHA
Page Copyright
© Copyright 2018 Freshlife
Health Disclaimer: The information provided on this site should not be construed as personal medical advice or instruction. It is intended for educational purpose only and is not meant to diagnose or treat any disease. No action should be taken based solely on the contents of this site. Readers should consult appropriate health professionals on any matter relating to their health and well-being. Site content is copyrighted and may not be reproduced without permission.
