Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'index, follow, max-image-preview:large, max-snippet:-1, max-video-preview:-1'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'On May 6, 2023, USMA conducted the annual Kościuszko Memorial Ceremony at the Kościuszko Monument.'}
{'property': 'og:locale', 'content': 'en_US'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'article'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'West Point Celebrates Kościuszko with Annual Memorial Ceremony'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'On May 6, 2023, USMA conducted the annual Kościuszko Memorial Ceremony at the Kościuszko Monument.'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.westpointaog.org/news/west-point-celebrates-kosciuszko-with-annual-memorial-ceremony/'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'West Point Association of Graduates'}
{'property': 'article:publisher', 'content': 'https://www.facebook.com/WestPointAOG/'}
{'property': 'article:published_time', 'content': '2023-06-06T13:00:00+00:00'}
{'property': 'article:modified_time', 'content': '2024-01-04T17:35:12+00:00'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://www.westpointaog.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/06/Kosciuszko-ceremony-2023.jpg'}
{'property': 'og:image:width', 'content': '710'}
{'property': 'og:image:height', 'content': '400'}
{'property': 'og:image:type', 'content': 'image/jpeg'}
{'name': 'author', 'content': 'Erika Norton'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'name': 'twitter:creator', 'content': '@WPAOG'}
{'name': 'twitter:site', 'content': '@WPAOG'}
{'name': 'twitter:label1', 'content': 'Written by'}
{'name': 'twitter:data1', 'content': 'Erika Norton'}
{'name': 'twitter:label2', 'content': 'Est. reading time'}
{'name': 'twitter:data2', 'content': '4 minutes'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 6.2.2'}
{'name': 'google-site-verification', 'content': 'e3343sB-Kc-6iuWHMsV71VsBU157MztmSTW0ZeVZEK0'}

Body Text:
West Point Celebrates Kościuszko with Annual Memorial Ceremony - West Point Association of Graduates
Quick Links
Be Thou at Peace
Cadet News
Classes
Class Rings
Find a Grad
Grad News
Podcast
Profile Updates
Societies
Support West Point
×
Road Closure
Road Closure
Construction has begun on the Michie Stadium Preservation Project. Mills Road is now closed to all vehicular and foot traffic between Stony Lonesome Road and Herbert Hall.
Learn more
.
Sallyport
Gift Shop
Visit
Directions
Hours of Operation
Grad Insider Tour
My Profile
Login/Register
Search
GO
Quick links
Close
☰
×
Traditions
Close
Be Thou At Peace
Search Be Thou At Peace
TAPS Memorial Articles
Make a Memorial Gift
Awards
Distinguished Graduate Award
Thayer Award
Nininger Award
See All
Gripping Hands Since 1999
50-Year Affiliation Program
Strengthening the ties between the graduates of yesterday and the cadets of today.
Leaving a Legacy
Brick & Paver
Etch a meaningful inscription on a brick or paver that will be placed on the historical grounds.
Connections
Close
Engage
My Profile
Find a West Point Grad
Search for grads by name, class year, company and many other criteria.
Register of Graduates Look-up
For official U.S. Army, USMA, West Point Association of Graduates, West Point societies, or class use.
Grad Community (Now in Sallyport!)
Classes
Class Notes
Class Leaders
Class Services
Class Financials
Societies
Society Leaders
Shared Interest Groups
West Point Groups
Board of Directors / Advisory Council
Task Force Committee
Get Involved
Membership
Associate Member
Friends of West Point
Volunteer Opportunities
Parent Resources
Hudson Valley Program
Visit CONNECT Website
Learn More
Services
Close
Class Rings
Lost & Found
Replace Ring
Ring Memorial Program
See All
Rockbound Highland Home
Grad Pass
Grad Perks
Grad Insider Tour
See All
Herbert Hall Rental
Great Hall Inquiry
Great Hall Calendar
Great Hall FAQs
Photos
See All
More Member Benefits
Career Services
Cullum Files
Funeral Support
Grads Helping Grads
Veterans Services
Travel Program
Ticket Exchange
USAA Affinity Program
See All
Other Info & Support
FAQs
Technical How Tos
West Point Prep School Scholarship
Military Retiree Recognition Program
Virtual Backgrounds
Giving
Events
Close
Calendars
Interactive Calendar
USMA Conferences
Featured Events
Career/Networking
Class Reunions
Founders Day
Football Tailgates
USMA Conferences
West Point Entrepreneurs
Golf Invitational
Grad March Back
WPAOG Leaders Conference
Army-Navy Tailgate
See All
Event Planning
Sponsorship Opportunities
Reunion Support Packages
Founders Day Planning
Event Planning Resources
News
Close
Publications
West Point Magazine
Advertise With Us
Subscribe to West Point
TAPS Memorial Articles Requirements
Purchase TAPS
Register of Graduates
First Call Newsletter
Stories
Grad News
Academy News
Cadet News
Society News
Philanthropy & Donor Profiles
Events & Awards
Ring Memorial Program
See All
Engage
WPAOG Podcast
Sallyport Android & iPhone Apps
Social Networks
Be in the Know
News Room
Visit the News Room for West Point stories that strengthen the grip of the Long Gray Line.
About
Close
About WPAOG
Mission
History
In Memoriam
This Day in  History
Financials
Policies
Terms of Use
Things You Can Do
Meet our Staff
Work at WPAOG
Get Login Help
Visit
Research
Governance
Governance Model
Nomination Policy
Board of Directors
Board Meeting Minutes
Advisory Council
Advisory Council Meeting Minutes
Volunteer Opportunities
Strategic Plan
Annual Report
Bylaws
GO
Home
›
News
›
News Room
›
‹
West Point Celebrates Kościuszko with Annual Memorial Ceremony
West Point Celebrates Kościuszko with Annual Memorial Ceremony
June 6, 2023
Category:
Grad News
Class Years:
1956
,
1986
,
1990
,
1995
,
1997
,
1999
,
2023
On May 6, 2023, USMA conducted the annual Kościuszko Memorial Ceremony at the Kościuszko Monument. Commandant of Cadets BG Mark Quander ’95 participated in the ceremony along with the Polish and Lithuanian Ambassadors to the United States. The ceremony was the highlight of two days of events honoring the American Revolutionary War Hero who fortified West Point and defended the Hudson River against British attack.
The day before the ceremony, the American Association of the Friends of Kosciuszko at West Point Inc. (AAFKWP) held their annual conference at the Thayer Hotel. This year’s theme was “Celebrating Kościuszko at West Point: Honoring the Life and Legacy of Thaddeus Kosciuszko” and the event marked the 20th anniversary of the association. COL Sean Sculley from the USMA Department of History provided opening remarks. AAFKWP EVP LTC (R) Steve Olejasz ’90 then read a letter from former Superintendent LTG (R) Dave R. Palmer ’56 honoring Kościuszko and commending the association for its accomplishments.
Conference speakers included a Kościuszko biographer, AAFKWP members who discussed the development and achievements of the organization, past and current OICs of the Cadet Kościuszko Squadron who covered the founding and current activities of the cadet club, and a Polish Security Analyst who provided an update on the war in Ukraine. COL Jason Perez ’97, gave an update on the Kościuszko Monument renovation which is being restored thanks to WPAOG and Margin of Excellence funds. The conference concluded with remarks via Zoom from Polish BG Tomasz Kowalik ’99 who is the Deputy Chief of Staff for Support of NATO Multinational Corps Northeast.
AAFKWP supports USMA’s annual ceremony by coordinating participants and conducting the conference and other events. Polish Ambassador Marek Magierowski and Lithuanian Ambassador Audra Plepyte participated in all the Saturday events which included Mass at Most Holy Trinity Chapel, the Cadet Review, the Kościuszko Memorial Ceremony, and a luncheon. Chaplain COL (R) Matt Pawlikowski ’86 celebrated Mass and delivered the invocation at the memorial ceremony.
The Ambassadors were seated in the Superintendent’s Review Box and recognized during the Cadet Review. The Cadet Drill Team performed before the parade and after the parade there was a Cadet Parachute Team demonstration.
The Kościuszko Memorial Ceremony marked the first time that the Polish and Lithuanian Ambassadors participated together. This brought together three NATO Allies to honor a common hero. The ambassadors gave remarks and participated in the wreath laying as Kościuszko received full military honors.
After the ceremony, the AAFKWP hosted 100 attendees for lunch at the Thayer Hotel. The ambassadors gave laudatory remarks and the CIC of the Cadet Kościuszko Squadron Lane Zuchowski ’23 gave an overview of the club’s yearly activities. highlighting their Spring Break trip to Poland which was coordinated by the AAFKWP. Squadron member Hannah Lamb ’23 gave an overview on her Firstie project that constructed an observation area in the Kosciuszko Garden.
The highlight of the luncheon was the presentation of Certificates of Appreciation from Superintendent LTG Steve Gilland ’90 to AAFKWP board members. The certificates noted the association’s dedication to the annual Kosciuszko Memorial Ceremony and support for the Academy, the Corps of Cadets, and the West Point community.
According to LTC (R) Steve Olejasz ’90, who has been involved in the annual ceremony for over 20 years, when he first served as the officer in charge of the event as an instructor in the Department of History, the American Association of the Friends of Kosciuszko at West Point was specifically founded to support the annual ceremony.  But in the 20 years since, they have expanded their efforts to support Polish and Lithuanian Exchange Cadets, the activities of the Cadet Kościuszko Squadron club, and broader US relations with Poland and Lithuania. Olejasz, who travels and speaks frequently in Poland and Lithuania, personally coordinates the annual participation of foreign diplomats and military officers at the ceremony and conference at West Point. In 2021 he was awarded the Cavalier’s Cross of the Order of Merit of the Republic of Poland by the Polish President Andrzej Duda. The award is presented to foreigners who have made outstanding contributions to international cooperation and bonds between Poland and their country.
Next year’s Kościuszko memorial events are scheduled for May 3-4, 2024.
Grad News
Subscribe to get grad news
or
cadet news
delivered to your inbox daily around 4:30 EST when a new story is posted. We use Feedblitz for email delivery, which is separate from the WPAOG email system and preferences.
More News
“Relentless” National Champions and Future Officers
05/09/2024
Podcast: A Story of Resilience with Ian Winer ’96
05/07/2024
The West Point Challenge is ON!
05/03/2024
Serving West Point and the Long Gray Line
West Point Association of Graduates
698 Mills Road
West Point, NY 10996
845.446.1500
Traditions
Connections
Services
Giving
Events
News
About
©
westpointaog.org
Privacy Policy
Site Map
Governance
Help
