Meta Information:
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'property': 'fb:app_id', 'content': '411584262324304'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'http%3A%2F%2Fwww.dpsnc.net%2Fsite%2Fdefault.aspx%3FPageID%3D5074'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'SSES Administration Team / SSES Administration Team'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'value': 'summary'}
{'name': 'twitter:title', 'content': 'SSES Administration Team / SSES Administration Team'}
{'itemprop': 'name', 'content': 'SSES Administration Team / SSES Administration Team'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}

Body Text:
SSES Administration Team / SSES Administration Team
Skip to Main Content
District Home
Select a School...
Select a School
Bethesda Elementary
Burton Elementary
C.C. Spaulding Elementary
Club Boulevard
Creekside Elementary
E.K. Powe Elementary
Easley Elementary
Eastway Elementary
Eno Valley Elementary
Fayetteville Street Elementary
Forest View Elementary
George Watts
Glenn Elementary
Hillandale Elementary
Holt Elementary
Hope Valley Elementary
Lakewood Elementary
Little River K-8
Lyons Farm Elementary
Mangum Elementary
Morehead Montessori Magnet Elementary
Merrick-Moore Elementary
Parkwood Elementary
Oak Grove Elementary
Pearsontown Elementary
R.N. Harris Elementary
Sandy Ridge Elementary
Southwest Elementary
W.G. Pearson Elementary
Y.E. Smith Elementary
Spring Valley Elementary
Brogden Middle
Carrington Middle
Sherwood Githens Middle School
Lakewood Montessori Middle
Lowe's Grove Middle
Lucas Middle
Neal Magnet Middle School
Rogers-Herr Middle School
Shepard Middle School
Durham School of the Arts
The School for Creative Studies
City of Medicine Academy
Durham School of Technology
Hillside High School
Holton Career & Resource Center
Middle College High School
Jordan High
J.D. Clement Early College
Northern High
Riverside High
Southern School of Energy and Sustainability
The Durham Performance Learning Center
Hospital School
Lakeview
Whitted School
Ignite Online Academy
Sign In
Register
Search Our Site
Home
About Us
"
Banner links
About Southern
Welcome
SSES Administration Team
Staff Directory
School Improvement Team
School Report Card
Academics
"
Advanced Placement
SSES Fine Arts Department
Magnet Programs
"
Magnet & CTE Pathway Programs
Parents
"
Parents
Weekly Announcements
PTSA
Band Boosters
Athletic Boosters
Students
"
Students
Driver Education
Staff
"
Staff
Athletics
"
SSES Athletics Page
Student Services
"
Health & Wellness
"
CTE
"
Career and Technical Education
Student Opportunities
About DPS
"
Clubs
"
Clubs
Southern School of Energy and Sustainability
Let’s Advance Learning
Admin Login


Search
GO
TO SUBMIT SEARCH
Southern School of Energy and Sustainability
SSES Administration Team
SSES Administration Team
Page Navigation
SSES Administration Team
Principal
: Jerome Leathers
Mr. Leathers is a native of Durham, North Carolina, and a product of Durham City Schools.  After graduating from Hillside High School, Mr. Leathers attended Norfolk State University and North Carolina Central University where he earned his Bachelor’s degree in Business Administration with a concentration in Finance from North Carolina Central University.  Additionally, he earned his Master of School Administration and Education Administration and Supervision from North Carolina Central University.
Mr. Leathers taught math for twelve years at the middle and high school levels with ten years at the high school level.  In 2003, Mr. Leathers was voted Teacher of the Year by the Faculty and Staff of Jordan High School.  While teaching in the classroom Mr. Leathers was the Head JV basketball and Head JV Softball coach for several years.
After earning his Master of Administration degree, Mr. Leathers served as an Assistant Principal at Hillside High School for three years.  In 2011, Mr. Leathers was named the Principal at Charles E. Jordan High School where he served the Jordan Community for 3 years.  Afterward, Mr. Leathers was named Principal of Southern School of Energy and Sustainability in 2014 and continues to serve in that role.
Mr. Leathers’ passion to positively impact young people is what stands out the most.  He is truly a champion for all students of the Durham Community.
Assistant Principal School of Biomedical Technology
: Jennifer Campbell
A graduate of Lynchburg College and University of North Carolina-Chapel Hill, Ms. Jennifer Campbell began her professional career as a Special Education teacher in Lynchburg, Virginia. She taught middle school English and Math. In 2006, she moved to Durham and began teaching as an inclusion teacher at Neal Middle School. In 2007, she began as an EC Facilitator where she worked with several DPS elementary and middle schools (Bethesda, Oak Grove, Lakewood, Shepard, Eastway and Southern) until 2011. While working as an EC Facilitator, Ms. Campbell completed her master’s degree in School Administration, in 2010.
In 2011, she was hired as the Director of Biomedical Technology at Southern School of Energy & Sustainability. While serving as director of the Biomed Academy, the student enrollment for the program has grown by 40%. She has been able to form partnerships with BioMeriux, BioGen, and the BRITE Program at NCCU.
Ms. Campbell also helped teachers form the Freshman Academy, which was able to reduce the 9th grade retention rate by 30% in the 1st two years of its existence. While working at SSES, Ms. Campbell has also been the administrator over the EL, English, World Languages, and Arts departments. She has worked with the Master Schedule, been the testing coordinator, and led the first few years of Southern’s Summer Bridge Program. Currently, she is the administrator working with EL, English, World Languages and Testing.
Ms. Campbell is married with 3 adult children (Ryan, Donovan and Brooke). She and her family enjoy traveling, outdoor activities and family events. She is a member of the NC Principals and Assistant Principals Association, Delta Kappa Gamma (DKG) Society International, and Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc. She can be reached at 919 560 3968 x68274 or
Jennifer_hull-campbe@dpsnc.net
.
Assistant Principal (Technology and Engineering Academy) -  Alaina Burr
Alaina Burr is a NC native with 17 years experience in education. During her fourteen years as an ESL teacher, she provided instruction in all core content areas before becoming a Teaching and Learning Coach to support in-person and virtual instruction.
Ms. Burr has provided teacher training for Duke MAT students, DAE, The Consortium in Latin American and Caribbean Studies at UNC at Chapel Hill and Duke University, and for teachers in China and El Salvador. She was the recipient of the US Department of State’s Bureau of Educational Affairs’ Teaching Excellence and Achievement Grant for Teacher Exchange in 2011 and was recognized as DPS Teacher of the Year in 2012.
Ms. Burr holds a Bachelor's Degree in Spanish and Sociology from UNC Chapel Hill, a Community Spanish Interpreter Certification from Durham Technical Community College and a Master of Education in Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages from Greensboro College. She will complete a Master of School Administration at NC State in the spring of 2022.
Ms. Burr serves as the Director of the Technology and Engineering Academy. She also oversees the Media Center, Health & PE, Social Studies, ESL, technology, MTSS, PBIS, CFST, ACT, testing, and parking.
When she is not at work, Ms. Burr enjoys being active. She is a certified rescue diver and world traveler. She enjoys hiking, kayaking, paddle boarding and training for triathlons. She also loves reading and spending time with her four-year-old son.
She can be reached at 919-560-3968 ext. 81101 and by email
Alaina_Burr@dpsnc.net
Assistant Principal (Business Academy) - Dr. Latoia Valentine
Dr. Latoia Valentine is a dynamic and visionary educational leader with a passion for fostering academic excellence, student development, and a vibrant school community. With over two decades of experience in the field of education, Dr. Valentine has dedicated herself to creating an environment where students thrive intellectually, socially, and emotionally, and to creating an environment where every student feels valued, respected, and empowered to succeed.
Dr. Latoia Valentine grew up in Roxboro, North Carolina, and has resided in Mebane, North Carolina since 2012.  She is a graduate of the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill with a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Psychology and African American History. She also holds her Master of Arts in Teaching and Master of School Administration from North Carolina Central University.  Dr. Valentine completed her Education Specialist and Doctor of Education in Leadership and Supervision at Liberty University in 2018. Dr. Valentine is a North Carolina Principal Fellow and brings a wealth of knowledge and expertise in instructional best practices, special education and training and development. She has recently received awards for being a Distinguished Leader in a Remote Environment and Distinguished Leadership in Practice from the North Carolina Association of Principals and Assistant Principals.
Dr. Valentine has an active membership in several professional associations.  In addition, she is a member of Jack & Jill of America and Alpha Kappa Alpha Sorority, Inc.  She enjoys watching and listening to true crime, shopping without a plan, traveling for fun, theater and concerts, reading and spending time with her children.
She can be reached at 919-560-3968 xtn 68233 or
Latoia_valentine@dpsnc.net
Assistant Principal (ACE Academy) - Dr. Phillip Boayue
Dr. Boayue's journey and accomplishments reflect a remarkable commitment to education, leadership, and service. His extensive experience in both the educational and military realms showcases a diverse skill set and a dedication to excellence. With over 20 years of residency in North Carolina, Dr. Boayue has deep roots in the community. His educational background, including degrees in Criminal Justice, African History from Fayetteville State University, and School Administration from Gardner Webb University, equipped him with a broad understanding of social dynamics and administrative principles. His commitment to lifelong learning is evident in his pursuit of advanced degrees, culminating in a Doctorate in Educational Leadership at F.S.U.
As an educator, Dr. Boayue's impact extends beyond the classroom. His tenure as a teacher and administrator in Cumberland and Wake County demonstrates a passion for nurturing young minds and fostering academic success. Under his principal leadership, Shaw Academy in Scotland County saw significant improvements in graduation rates, test scores, and student attendance, highlighting his effectiveness as an educational leader. Dr. Boayue's military service adds another dimension to his leadership profile. As a Chief Warrant Officer in the United States Army Reserves, he exemplifies dedication, discipline, and bravery. His involvement in global and combat operations during Noble Eagle, Enduring Freedom, and Iraqi Freedom, underscores his commitment to serving his country and protecting its interests.
Outside his professional endeavors, Dr. Boayue values family and relaxation. His leisure activities, such as spending time with family and vacationing in the Caribbean, reflect a balanced approach to life and a recognition of the importance of personal well-being. Overall, Dr. Boayue's multifaceted experiences and accomplishments position him as a transformative leader who embodies the values of education, leadership, and service. His contributions to both the educational and military sectors have undoubtedly made a positive impact on the lives of many, shaping future generations and upholding the ideals of excellence and integrity.
He can be reached at 919-560-3968 ext 8113 or
Phillip_Boayue@dpsnc.net
Visit Us
800 Clayton Road
Durham, NC 27703
Get Directions
Contact Us
Phone: 919-560-3968
Fax: 919-560-2445
Email Us
Helpful Links
Site Map
Accessibility Information
Employment
This is the disclaimer text. You can use this area for legal statements, copyright information, a mission statement, etc. If you don’t use it, the Bb footer will slide up.
Questions or Feedback?
|
Web Community Manager Privacy Policy (Updated)
|
Copyright © 2024 Finalsite - all rights reserved.
CLOSE
CLOSE
