Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'google-site-verification', 'content': 'kbAllCUzLWXJQC4HhZT32hJVsn5U9xllsmKnor7Q6hk'}
{'name': 'google-site-verification', 'content': '6kJgHkpP23uRQUEEvNxkngr978hrYhPxYUIeLlX8Gj4'}
{'name': 'google-site-verification', 'content': 'kbAllCUzLWXJQC4HhZT32hJVsn5U9xllsmKnor7Q6hk'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'A Passion for Economics!  At Higher Rock Education our mission is to provide Free Online Economics Lessons for Students, Homeschoolers and Teachers.'}

Body Text:
Free Online Economics Lessons for Students, Homeschoolers and Teachers
Please Donate
Home
About
Why Choose Higher Rock Education
Staff and Board of Advisors
Our Passion
Testimonials
Partners
Economic Lessons
All Lessons
Fundamental Economic Principles
Supply and Demand
Factors of Production
Measuring the Economy
Managing the Economy
Market Structures
Courses
Blog
Glossary
Contact
Higher Rock Education Provides Free Online Economics Lessons Designed Specifically For Students, Home Schools, And Teachers!
View Lessons
All Lessons Are Free!
We believe everyone should have access to economics education.
View Lessons
Students
"Mr. Lindenmuth made economics interesting by bringing real-world examples to the classroom."
~MG
Learn More
View Lessons
Homeschools
"I like the way Higher Rock makes economics understandable by providing clear written text, entertaining videos, and instructive interactive exercises."
~JB
Learn More
View Lessons
Teachers
"I appreciate that the lessons are straightforward and are explained in terms that are accessible for people with varying levels of exposure to economics."
~SS
Learn More
View Lessons
Christian Perspective
Scripture lessons are relevant and engaging.
View Lessons
WHY ECONOMICS? BECAUSE ECONOMICS IMPACTS YOUR LIFE!
"Higher Rock Education is committed to providing free economic education to develop global understanding, compassion, & economic literacy"
Our Lessons Are Free!
Our passion…economics education. Our mission…to provide online, supplementary economics lessons to young adults, while fostering an appreciation for the relevance of Christianity and economic principles. Our goal…to make learning enjoyable and interesting. How...by providing interactive exercises, videos, text, and relevant articles. Our classroom…anywhere with an internet connection. Our market…teachers, homeschools, schools, and anyone else interested in understanding economics.
As a Non-Profit Organization, we Depend on Your Donations - Thank You!
Please Donate
Our Lessons Include:
Text
Scripture Lesson
Interactive Exercises
Supplemental Videos
Detailed Glossary of Economic Terms
Links to Relevant Articles and Resources
View Lessons
BLOG
Economics in the News - May 6-12, 2024
Wednesday, May 15, 2024
The Houthi's expanded attacks continues to burden the global supply chain. The fast-food industry is more popular than ever, with 86 million Americans eating fast food on a daily basis. Caitlin Clark has begun her WNBA career and the league is already seeing a boom in business. Catch up on the latest Economics in the News.
MORE
Economics in the News - April 29 - May 5, 2024
Tuesday, May 07, 2024
The value of the Japanese yen has continued to weaken. The future of public charging for electric vehicles is up in the air after Tesla laid off 500 workers. Dave & Buster's is set to allow betting on their arcade games. Catch up on the latest Economics in the News.
MORE
US Employment Report – April 2024
Sunday, May 05, 2024
Employers have eased hiring, which has boosted the unemployment rate and increased the likelihood that the Federal Reserve will begin cutting rates sooner.
MORE
Testimonials
I like the way Higher Rock makes economics understandable by providing clear written text, entertaining videos, and instructive interactive exercises.
JB
I love the Scripture lessons!
NH
The Higher Rock lessons have been presented in an easy-to-understand format, with the information in each lesson being very relevant and extremely helpful in furthering my knowledge of economics. I appreciate that the lessons are straightforward and are explained in terms that are accessible for people with varying levels of exposure to economics.
SS
Quick Links
Home
Economics Lessons
Glossary
Blog
Information
About Us
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use
Contact Us
Contact Information
Higher Rock Education and Learning, Inc.
1036 Steinbeck Drive
Durham
,
27703
NC
USA
©
Higher Rock Education and Learning, Inc. All rights reserved. No portion of this site may be copied or distributed by any means, including electronic distribution without the express written consent of Higher Rock Education and Learning, Inc.
