Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1', 'id': 'wixDesktopViewport'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Wix.com Website Builder'}
{'name': 'wix-dynamic-custom-elements', 'content': 'DropDownMenu'}
{'name': 'format-detection', 'content': 'telephone=no'}
{'name': 'skype_toolbar', 'content': 'skype_toolbar_parser_compatible'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-Wix-Meta-Site-Id', 'content': '6fbedc65-7227-4cd8-9d96-900d11aa846f'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-Wix-Application-Instance-Id', 'content': 'be1413c6-76f2-4bd5-9a23-3c793a0c580a'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-Wix-Published-Version', 'content': '800'}
{'http-equiv': 'etag', 'content': 'bug'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Home | iammegirls'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.iammegirlsrock.org'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'iammegirls'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'name': 'twitter:title', 'content': 'Home | iammegirls'}

Body Text:
Home | iammegirls
top of page
CART
Home
About Us
Founder
Crown
Become a Mentor
Become a Mentee
Check Us Out
Community Engagement
Shop
More
Use tab to navigate through the menu items.
iAmMe Girls has been committed
to our community and the growth and development of youth girls since 2015. Over the years, with your unwavering support and belief in our mission, we have been able to make a significant impact on our community through various initiatives.
Your support is crucial in enabling us to continue our important work. By making a donation today, you can directly contribute to the success of our mentoring program and help transform the lives of young girls in our community.
Your generosity will allow us to:
Provide mentorship:
Your donation will help us recruit and train dedicated mentors who will guide and support young girls on their journey towards personal growth and empowerment.
Offer educational opportunities:
With your support, we can organize workshops, seminars, and educational activities that equip girls with valuable skills, knowledge, and resources necessary for their future success.
Create a safe space:
Your contribution will enable us to maintain a safe and welcoming environment where girls can freely express themselves, share their experiences, and receive the support they need to overcome challenges.
WELCOME
iAmMeGirls
believes that every girl deserves to feel valuable, to find love within her-self and to have the support and the empowerment she needs to excel.
BEAUTIFUL
BOLD
CONFIDENT
Sanna M.
IAmMe is a great program. It brings girls out of their comfort zone. This program has helped me learn many things through business to loving myself. IAmMe also is very big on helping the homeless which teaches you how to prepare but also not to be a selfish person and be here for others. The instructors make you feel like we are one big family and that you belong in the group. The program is not just about learning different things it’s also about just getting out the house and spending time with other girls around your age doing fun activities in the area. I have learned more about history through this program than in actual history class because the instructors make things interesting so you can be engaged. I love the IAmMe program and have learned that this is one of my safe places.
Jerolyn H.
We are so grateful to be apart of the IAmMe family. The group was already established and had members when we joined, but founder Millie and the girls made my daughter feel very welcomed. The mission and purpose of the group aligns with what I as a mom sought for my pre teen daughter. They teach values, respect, uplifting, confidence, sisterhood, and more. It really is a village!!
​
Jerolyn H.
The program allowed me to give back to the community by providing  lunches and giving supplies for people in need. It helped boost my self confidence allowing me to believe in myself more and not letting others put me down. It helped me realize the beauty I have within myself.
Jania M.
I have been a part of I Am Me Girls since the beginning. Through mentoring and fellowship I have been encouraged and have further built myself up. I am beautiful, I am unique, I am me.”
Jamyia B.
I have been a part of IAmMe girls for some time now, and this program has helped me exceed in several ways. IAmMe girls have helped me embrace my inner beauty and gain confidence. Working through this program has helped me to understand that it’s not about the outside but the inside that counts the most. I am me girls are different from other programs because it teaches young girls like me how to embrace themselves.  I can walk into a room knowing that I am beautiful, bold, and confident from within thanks to I am me girls.
Testimonials
Learn More About Us
With the emergence of social media and the ongoing peer pressure that many teen girls faced, the need for support and empowerment was essential for the establishment of iAmMe Girls in 2015. The organization is a 501 c 3 nonprofit organization based in Durham, N.C., and provides services to girls ages 10-18 who are committed to building positive connections and motivation to participate in the program The program is guided by our four pillars: individuality, leadership, community service and health and wellness. The program believes each youth deserves to feel valuable, to find love within themselves, and to have the support and the empowerment they need to excel.
LEARN MORE
Our Services
MENTORSHIP LEADERSHIP PROGRAM
LEARN MORE
COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT
LEARN MORE
CROWN
PROJECT INITAITVE
LEARN MORE
Thank you to our sponsors
Thank you for your interest in iAmMe Girls! We are so glad you stopped by. If you have any questions or need any additional information please e-mail us at
iammegirlsrock@gmail.com
or leave us a message below!
Submit
Thanks for submitting!
bottom of page
