Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'msvalidate.01', 'content': 'A30D8FD8CE2A8061A23665890CF14BE9'}
{'name': 'google-site-verification', 'content': 'lyomW7vae6PDUB2gi1ABrwpXody5512P3bxHXNfpwUE'}
{'name': 'google-site-verification', 'content': 'rjIoO4vW0AYgltSYvxM1L_CzGIkq28kHf9gHIASKx8s'}
{'http-equiv': 'cleartype', 'content': 'on'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': "Official website of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). NIH is one of the world's foremost medical research centers. An agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the NIH is the Federal focal point for health and medical research. The NIH website offers health information for the public, scientists, researchers, medical professionals, patients, educators,"}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': 'NIH, Health, research funding, medical research, medical information, grants, biomedical, disease prevention, biological science, clinical trials'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'follow, index'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Drupal 7 (http://drupal.org)'}
{'http-equiv': 'content-language', 'content': 'EN'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'National Institutes of Health (NIH)'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.nih.gov/'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'National Institutes of Health (NIH)'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': "Official website of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). NIH is one of the world's foremost medical research centers. An agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the NIH is the Federal focal point for health and medical research. The NIH website offers health information for the public, scientists, researchers, medical professionals, patients, educators, and students. The Site has extensive information on funding and training opportunities, clinical trials, health news and links to the many Institutes and Centers that make-up the NIH."}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary'}
{'name': 'twitter:url', 'content': 'https://www.nih.gov/'}
{'name': 'twitter:title', 'content': 'National Institutes of Health (NIH)'}
{'name': 'twitter:description', 'content': "Official website of the National Institutes of Health (NIH). NIH is one of the world's foremost medical research centers. An agency of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, the NIH is the"}
{'name': 'owner', 'content': 'NIH'}

Body Text:
National Institutes of Health (NIH) | Turning Discovery Into Health
Skip to main content
U.S. Department of Health & Human Services
Search the NIH Website
Virtual Tour
Staff Directory
En Español
Site Menu
Home
Health Information
Health Care Providers & Facilities
Health Info Lines
HealthCare.gov
Science Education Resources
NIH Clinical Research Trials and You
Talking to Your Doctor
More »
Search Health Topics
Quick Links
MedlinePlus Health Info
NIH News in Health
Wellness Toolkits
Grants & Funding
Grants Home Page
Find Funding
Due Dates
How to Apply
About Grants
Policy & Compliance
Grants News/Blog
Contracts
Loan Repayment
More »
Quick Links
RePORT
eRA Commons
NIH Common Fund
News & Events
News Releases
Digital Media Kits
Media Resources
Media Contacts
Images and B-roll
Events
Social Media
More »
Quick Links
NIH News in Health
NIH Research Matters
NIH Record
Research & Training
Medical Research Initiatives
Science Highlights
Science Education
Research in NIH Labs & Clinics
Training Opportunities
Library Resources
Research Resources
Clinical Research Resources
Safety, Regulation and Guidance
More »
Quick Links
PubMed
Stem Cell Information
OppNet
NIDB
NIH Blueprint for Neuroscience Research
Institutes at NIH
List of Institutes and Centers
NIH Office of the Director
Directors of NIH Institutes and Centers
NIH Institute and Center Contact Information
More »
Quick Links
NCI
NEI
NHLBI
NHGRI
NIA
NIAAA
NIAID
NIAMS
NIBIB
NICHD
NIDCD
NIDCR
NIDDK
NIDA
NIEHS
NIGMS
NIMH
NIMHD
NINDS
NINR
NLM
CC
CIT
CSR
FIC
NCATS
NCCIH
About NIH
Who We Are
What We Do
Jobs at NIH
Visitor Information
Frequently Asked Questions
Contact Us
More »
Quick Links
The NIH Director
Take the Virtual Tour
NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health
®
Impact of NIH Research
Science, Health, and Public Trust
Join Us for Healthy Vision Month 2024!
NEI is shining a light on vision loss and mental health — and sharing steps people with a visual impairment can take to thrive in their daily lives.
Learn more »
Long COVID
RECOVER Initiative launches clinical trials evaluating treatments for exercise intolerance, post-exertional malaise, and sleep disturbances.
Learn more »
May is National Speech-Language-Hearing Month
Learn about developmental language disorder—a disorder affecting 1 in 14 kindergarteners.
Learn more »
Celebrating at graduation this year?
Talk with your high school grads about celebrating safely.
Learn more »
STEM Teaching Resources
Innovative NIH-funded content to engage K-12 students in health science.
Learn more »
In the News
High-Risk Prostate Cancer
New urine test can identify aggressive cancers that need treatment
Parents Lost to Overdose
From 2011-21, more than 321,000 children lost a parent to a drug overdose.
Alzheimer’s Disease
People with two copies the APOE4 gene are at much higher risk.
Fentanyl Pill Seizures
Law enforcement sees massive jump in confiscated amount of the drug.
NIH at a Glance
virtual-tour-screenshot-square.jpg
Take the Virtual Tour
Explore the Bethesda campus and how NIH turns discovery into health.
monica-bertagnolli-thumbnail.jpg
The NIH Director
Monica M. Bertagnolli, M.D., is the NIH Director and provides leadership for the 27 Institutes and Centers that make up NIH.
nih-at-a-glance-funding.jpg
Funding for Research
NIH is the largest source of funding for medical research in the world, creating hundreds of thousands of high-quality jobs.
nih-at-a-glance-labs.jpg
Labs at NIH
Scientists conduct research on NIH campuses across the U.S., as part of our Intramural Research Program.
improving-health-collage.jpg
Impact of NIH Research
NIH-supported research has had a major positive impact on nearly all of our lives.
researcher-holding-petri-dish.jpg
Jobs at NIH
The central recruitment point of access to all NIH jobs and training opportunities
COVID-19
ACTIV
A public-private partnership to develop a coordinated research strategy to speed the most promising COVID-19 vaccines and treatments.
Rapid Acceleration of Diagnostics (RADx)
An initiative to speed innovation in the development, commercialization, and implementation of technologies for COVID-19 testing.
RECOVER
A new research initiative to understand, prevent, and treat the long-term effects of COVID-19.
COVID-19 Treatment Guidelines
Guidelines from NIH for the diagnosis, treatment, and control of COVID-19.
Research information from NIH
NIH supports research in COVID-19 testing, treatments, and vaccines.
También disponible en español.
NIH COVID-19 Safety Plan
Guidance to NIH staff, including employees, contractors, trainees, and volunteers, related to COVID-19.
Featured Resources & Initiatives
ARPA-H
A new science agency proposed by President Joseph Biden as part of NIH to drive biomedical breakthroughs and provide transformative solutions for all patients.
Anti-Sexual Harassment
NIH does not tolerate pervasive or severe harassment of any kind, including sexual harassment.
Ending Structural Racism
Learn more about NIH’s efforts to end structural racism in biomedical research through the UNITE initiative.
All of Us
Research Program
A research effort to revolutionize how we improve health and treat disease.
NIH HEAL Initiative
Trans-agency effort to speed scientific solutions to stem the national opioid crisis.
Clinical Trials
Learn about participating in clinical trials and where to find them.
Accelerating Medicines Partnership
A bold venture to help identify new treatments and cures for diseases.
Medical Research Initiatives
Important initiatives aimed at improving medical research.
Training at NIH
NIH provides training opportunities internally, as well as at universities and other institutions across the U.S.
Connect with Us
Contact Us
X
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Flickr
More Social Media from NIH
Footer
NIH Home
Virtual Tour
En Español
Visitor Information
Frequently Asked Questions
Privacy Policy
Disclaimers
Accessibility
NIH Website Archives
Nondiscrimination Notice
Freedom of Information Act
No Fear Act
HHS Vulnerability Disclosure
Office of Inspector General
USA.gov
NIH…Turning Discovery Into Health
®
National Institutes of Health, 9000 Rockville Pike, Bethesda, Maryland 20892
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
Back to Top
