Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0, width=device-width;'}
{'name': 'format-detection', 'content': 'telephone=no'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'author', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'format-detection', 'content': 'telephone=no'}
{'name': 'referrer', 'content': 'no-referrer-when-downgrade'}

Body Text:
ISOB
Search Site
Username
Password
Log In
Forgot your username or password?
Toggle navigation
About
About
Board of Governors
Past Presidents
Mission
Meetings
Foundation
Foundation
Officers and Board
Journal
Crier
Who We Are - What We Do
The International Society of Barristers was formed to recognize each era’s best advocates that they might join together to support these common goals:
Retaining trial by jury in litigated matters;
Improving advocacy under an adversary system;
Recognizing advocacy as a distinct specialty, with the creation of proper standards for those holding themselves out as advocates;
Abolishing animosity between counsel representing plaintiffs and defendants, replacing it with a recognition that all trial lawyers are advocates fully representing the rights of all clients;
Encouraging and demanding ethical conduct by all involved in litigation – parties, witnesses, counsel and judges;
Insisting that clients be represented by independent counsel owing their allegiance to the client; and
Protecting the rights of citizens, the independence of the judiciary and the integrity of the Bar.
Membership is by invitation only which is proceeded by a rigorous screening process that considers the lawyer’s ability, experience, accomplishments and ethical standards as assessed by trial lawyers and judges.
The Society holds an annual meeting and publishes a quarterly journal of topics covered at the meeting and otherwise of interest to its members. Through the International Society of Barristers Foundation, the Society supports the work of other organizations whose endeavors are consistent with the Society’s goals.
For further information about the Society,
contact
its Administrative Secretary, Professor Donald Beskind at Duke University School of Law.
MEMBERSHIP DIRECTORY
CLICK HERE
to search our membership directory
NEW!
M
embers can access the ISOB 2023-2024 Roster Digital Edition.
Log In and click the "Member Roster" tab at the top of the page.
Our Charitable Foundation
The International Society of Barristers Foundation, created in 2002 as a 501(c)(3) private charitable foundation, exists to support the same ideals as the International Society of Barristers:  to retain trial by jury; provide training in trial advocacy; encourage civility in the adversary system; and support and improve our system of justice.  The Foundation receives tax-deductible contributions, often in honor or in memory of named individuals, and makes grants in support of the Foundation's mission. Because the ISOB pays all the expenses of the Foundation, 100% of all donations are available to be distributed in the form of grants.
Our Quarterly Journal
Click here
to see the available digital versions of past issues of our Quarterly.    We are in the process of scanning all 50 years of the Journal and additional scanned volumes will be added as they become available.
International Society of Barristers
210 Science Drive
Durham, NC 27708-0360
(919) 766-1001
Contact Us
Naylor Association Solutions
