Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0, width=device-width'}
{'name': 'referrer', 'content': 'no-referrer-when-downgrade'}

Body Text:
iNEMI
Join
|
Login
|
Contact
|
Search
About Us
iNEMI Leadership
iNEMI Staff
Legal Documents
Deployment Projects
Technical Planning
Industry Outreach
Contact Us
Membership
Join iNEMI
Member List
2023 iNEMI Recognition Program Winners
2022 iNEMI Recognition Program Winners
2024 Recognition Program Nominations
Roadmap
Current Roadmap
How to Contribute
5G/6G MAESTRO
Projects
In Progress
In Development
Completed
Resources
Papers & Presentations
2023 Tech Topic Webinars
2023 Presentations & Papers
Board Assembly Tech Topic Series
iNEMI Presentations & Interviews at IPC APEX EXPO 2024
Events
Council of Members Meeting
Members — mark your calendars for the annual iNEMI members meeting!
June 11/12, 2024
Get additional details
iNEMI Vision
To enable an electronics ecosystem for a better world.
iNEMI Mission
To be the premier collaboration forum to forecast and accelerate improvements in the electronics manufacturing industry.
Roadmap the Future
iNEMI roadmaps future opportunities and challenges
for the electronics manufacturing industry, identifying
major trends in technology evolution across
numerous disciplines, defining critical gaps and
prioritizing R&D needs.
Leverage Through Collaboration
iNEMI projects address industry knowledge gaps,
focusing the efforts of several organizations on a single
industry-widen problem to accelerate resolution and
ensure technology readiness when your
business requires it.
Accelerate Innovation
Think strategically, collaborate wisely, solve creatively
The International Electronics Manufacturing Initiative (iNEMI) is a not-for-profit R&D consortium of leading electronics manufacturers and suppliers, along with associations, government agencies, and universities. iNEMI roadmaps the future technology requirements of the global electronics manufacturing industry, identifies and prioritizes technology and infrastructure gaps, and helps eliminate those gaps through timely, high-impact collaborations among our members. These collaborations support our members' businesses and help drive the industry by accelerating the deployment of new technologies, developing industry infrastructure, stimulating standards development, and disseminating efficient business practices. In short, we effectively and efficiently bring the latest, greatest technologies to you!
Member Organizations
Our members encompass the full electronics ecosystem — OEMs, EMS/ODM/OSATs, component & material suppliers, equipment vendors, software providers, university & research laboratories, government agencies, industry associations.
Active Projects
Our projects address industry knowledge gaps, focusing on common problems best addressed through industry collaboration and in direct alignment with members’ commercial interests.
Countries
Like the industry, our members are global, with headquarters in 21 countries and locations worldwide.
Roadmaps
Since 1994, we have roadmapped the future technology requirements of the global electronics industry, identifying and prioritizing technology and infrastructure gaps.
Our Members
Upcoming Events
21
May
iNEMI Packaging Tech Topic Series: Role of EDA in Advanced Semiconductor Packaging
10:00 AM to 11:00 AM JST
22
May
Complex Integrated Systems — Next Steps (members only) - Session 1
11:00 AM to 12:00 PM EDT
23
May
Complex Integrated Systems — Next Steps (members only) - Session 2
10:00 AM to 11:00 AM CET
11
Jun
iNEMI Council of Members - APAC
10:00 AM to 11:30 AM HKT
11
Jun
iNEMI Council of Members - Americas & EMEA
10:00 AM to 11:30 AM EDT
17
Jun
iNEMI/IPC Workshop at Electronics Goes Green 2024+: How to Address Circularity Challenges in Electro
2:00 PM to 6:00 PM CET
Latest News
NEWS RELEASE: iNEMI Names Grace O'Malley CTO
Wednesday, May 1, 2024
| Posted by iNEMI
The Board of Directors of the International Electronics Manufacturing Initiative (iNEMI) has named Grace O'Malley Chief Technical Officer (CTO).
NEWS RELEASE: iNEMI Announces Results of Board of Directors Election
Thursday, April 4, 2024
| Posted by iNEMI
iNEMI announces results from the Board of Directors election. The consortium's members have added three new directors and re-elected three incumbents, and the Directors have elected Chan Pin Chong, Kulicke & Soffa, as the new Chair.
NEWS RELEASE: New Online iNEMI Roadmap Publishes First Wave of Content
Wednesday, April 3, 2024
| Posted by iNEMI
iNEMI has published the first roadmap topics in the new iNEMI Roadmap format. Printed circuit boards, sustainable electronics, smart manufacturing, and mmWave materials and test are now available online.
NEWS RELEASE: iNEMI / IPC White Paper on Complex Integrated Systems Highlights Future Technology and Manufacturing Ecosystem Needs
Monday, March 25, 2024
| Posted by iNEMI
An iNEMI/IPC white paper, “Complex Integrated Systems: The Future of Electronics Manufacturing,” provides a guide for cross-industry efforts and R&D partnerships that will be critical to CIS success.
View All Events
View All News
Projects
iNEMI's collaborative projects eliminate technology gaps, set direction for future technology, and drive standardization to reduce cost & complexity.
Roadmap
iNEMI roadmaps provide a 10-year outlook for electronics manufacturing, anticipating technology needs and identifying gaps.
Membership
Through the combined power of iNEMI's global membership, we efficiently drive technology development and deployment across the global supply chain.
International Electronics Manufacturing Initiative
3000 RDU Center Drive, Suite 220
Morrisville, North Carolina  27560  United States
(984) 333-0820
Terms & Conditions
|
Privacy Policy
About Us
Membership
Roadmap
Subscribe to our newsletter
Projects
Resources
Events
Copyright © 2024, INEMI
