Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=UTF-8'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Powered by WPBakery Page Builder - drag and drop page builder for WordPress.'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Powered by Slider Revolution 5.4.7.2 - responsive, Mobile-Friendly Slider Plugin for WordPress with comfortable drag and drop interface.'}

Body Text:
National Iota Website
National Iota Website
(202) 556-1859
https://linktr.ee/IotaPhiLambdaSorority
Home
About Iota
Mission
Service Initiatives
Scholarships
Affiliates
23-24 Licensed Iota Vendors
Photo Gallery
2019 National Anniversary Convention
2017 National Convention- Long Beach, CA
2015 National Convention Photos
2014 Photos
2013 National Convention Photos
2011 National Convention Photos
2009 National Convention Photos
Leadership
National President Page
National Board
Heritage
Founder
Past National Presidents (2023)
Mahala S. Evans Winners
Lola M. Parker Achievement Award Winners
National Honorary Sorors
Membership
Prospective New Members
Member Login
Contact Us
Play
Pause
"Professional Business Women Propelled by Ingenuity: Intentional Purpose"  #Designed1929  #Driven2023-2027 #Distinction2029
President’s Message
As the 24th National President, I am pleased to welcome you to the national website of Iota Phi Lambda Sorority, Inc.  Iota was founded in 1929 in Chicago, IL by Mrs. Lola M. Parker and six of her friends.  Mrs. Parker had a vision of improving the lives of young women going into the business field.
Read More...
Iota Phi Lambda Education Fund
Iota Phi Lambda Sorority Incorporated, a business and professional women’s organization, is committed to supporting students seeking to further their business and professional careers through the means of higher education. .....
Read More...
Toys ‘U’ Can’t Return
Iota's National Program to help local communities learn more about teenage pregnancy and develop effective action agendas for preventing children from having children.
Read More...
Important Videos
Iota Phi Lambda Sorority, Inc. wishes to share important video content in this section.
Click Here...
Visit Our National Headquarters
NEW ADDRESS!

Requests to visit the National Headquarters can be made by clicking
here.
or dial (202) 556-1859
Scholarships
Iota Phi Lambda Sorority, Inc. offers scholarship opportunities through its local chapters and regions.  Contact your area chapter for additional details.
Service Initiatives
In keeping with our founder’s vision, chapters and members of Iota Phi Lambda Sorority implement and execute programs and projects throughout the year to further the aims and ideals of the organization.
©2023 Iota Phi Lambda Sorority, Inc, Webmaster Michelle Peace
U-Design
Back to Top
