Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 5.5.14'}

Body Text:
Change a Heart | Sharing bhakti yoga philosophy and mantra meditation practices with prison inmates
About Our Team
Home
About Us
Voices From Inside
Letter from Wisconsin
Prose and Poetry
Snake River Correctional Institution
Artwork
In Their Words
Good letter from Texas
A Cellmate’s Observation
Blog
Become a Pen-pal
Support Us
Welcome
IPBYS (International Pure Bhakti Yoga Society) Outreach is a non-profit organization dedicated to the spiritual and personal development of inmates, delivered through an interactive educational program on Gaudiya Vaisnava philosophy and its meditation practices. We aim to assist inmates with healing and personal transformation through the practice of bhakti-yoga (a spiritual discipline which connects us with God through love-driven service), kirtan (singing of the Lord’s holy names) and a transcendental philosophy that focuses on compassion.
Read more about us…
0
Prisons
0
Books Distributed
0
Active Inmates
0
Pen Pals
Contemplations From Inside
Patience – A Wholesome Journey
by Bhakti Kerion bhai Webber
Once a Muslim cleric told me that the one who has patience is the one who has trained himself to handle difficulties, and also it meant to keep close to God and accept calmly the trials HE sends, without complaining or feeling sad.
Being incarcerated for over 20 years, I’ve had to learn how to be patient. At certain times I was willingly patient, at other times patience was forced upon me. Either way, sometimes it was easy, sometimes it was hard. Eventually, I found that by practicing patience, I begin to develop good human characteristics. I also started gaining a positive psychological attitude, by virtue of which I refrained from doing that which comes so easily within a violent environment such as prison, e.g., bring involved with homosexuality, drugging, drinking, gambling on fighting, stabbing and killing other inmates. You name it, and if it was self-destructive, it was happening within these walls.
Read more…
How hearts change
Support our endeavors!
Donate
Please enter IPBYS Outreach when you shop
Amazon Smile
Comment (1)
Reply
on May 19, 2016, 11:39 pm
Iswari Dasi
Dandavats ! Jaya Sri Guru Gauranga !
We are a worm in stool writing to you.
This message is to extend out gratitude for encouraging us to participate however menially in the IPBYS Prison Seva Mission to spread the Sankirtan Yajna Harinam Sankirtan of Sri Hari’s Holy Names into even behind the crevices of the prison cell walls to reach out to the most in need of mercy and destitute souls often forgotton!
I hope this message finds you well. After watching the video I was literally in tears and hoping and asking myself, ” What MORE can I do to help in these efforts? ”
Part of me feels a bit shameful as I had been so fired up ever since meeting the devotees, entering into Srila Gurudeva’s New Braj Dham at Badger, meeting HG Syamarani & the Gaudiya Girls as well as sanga, that although I had tried to distribute books and very well have been slowly and surely to those I had canvassed have shown spiritual inclination and desire to read and learn more about the movement which Gaurangadev had propogated, I feel I could be doing better and MORE. . . though also feeling my ability to be somewhat “limited” and on a very low budget. But my power to write and preach is there.
I have been reading Srila Gurudeva’s “Soul of Book Distribution” and reading a few pages daily as far as possible. Taking to note my personality, and nature, and as HG Syamarani once wrote me in response to a letter encouraging ,” Slow & Steady Win the Race “. Writing in response to an inmate in the Gatesville, TX Women’s CI has led me to want to do this more and continue this certainly profound groundwork.
One thing I wanted to mainly ask was if we can have a Intro Welcome Packet for Spiritual Pen Pal/ Prison Minisiters for our family to have as mentioned in the Prison Preaching Video, which I loved and felt deeply inspired and hope and pray all viewers to take up their inspiration by giving of themselves at their capacity to help thwart this endeavor to full blossomed success spreading Hari Nam to every corner and town and village ad prison and fallen soul to spread Krishna Prema!
Radhe Shyam!
servant at your feet, Hari guru Vaishnavs,
Iswari Devi Dasi , & Eshwar prabhu family
Leave a Reply
Cancel Reply
Your email address will not be published.
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
Change a Heart © 2019 | All Rights Reserved
