Meta Information:

Body Text:
Cattell
Cattell 
Fund History Page
Cattell 
Fellowship Eligibility Requirements
Cattell 
Fellowship Application Form
Cattell 
Fellowship Recipients
The 
  James McKeen Cattell Fund
For 
  over half a century, the James McKeen Cattell Fund has provided support for the 
  science and the application of psychology. The Fund offers a program of supplementary 
  sabbatical awards ("James McKeen Cattell Fund Fellowships"). These awards 
  supplement the regular sabbatical allowance provided by the recipients' home institutions, 
  to allow an extension of leave-time from one to two semesters. Information on 
  the history of the fund, as well as application materials, requirements for award 
  eligibility, and a list of previous recipients are available on this site. See 
  topics listed in the left hand column.
Past recipients of the Cattell Sabbatical Awards are posted at (
http://
www.cattell.duke.edu/cattrecip.html
).
The 2023-2024  Awardees Are:
C. Daryl Cameron  -
Penn State University
Stephanie Carlson   -
University of Minnesota
Robert Hampton-
Emory University
Kevin Holmes  -
Reed College
Read about their projects here:
https://www.psychologicalscience.org/observer/2023-cattell-sabbatical
For a full list of past recipients see "(
http://www.cattell.duke.edu/cattrecip.html
).
The deadline for applications for the 2024-2025  awards is January 15, 2024
Your application and letters of recommendation must be submitted via our on-line portal which will open in November.
http://academicjobsonline.org/ajo/James%20McKeen%20Cattell%20Fund
If you run into technical problems, please contact Christopher Allen <
christopher.r.allen@duke.edu
>
Trustees:
Peter A. Ornstein, Managing Trustee
Christina L. Williams,  Secretary-Treasurer
Richard Gonzolez
Robert W. Levenson
Scott Maxwell
Sharon Thompson-Schill
Established 1942
New York City
We are pleased to announce that the Cattell Sabbatical Award Fund has formed an alliance with the Association for Psychological Science (APS). Cattell Sabbatical Awardees will be announced annually at the APS Spring Meeting and a profile of each awardee will be published in the APS Observer.
Contact 
  Information:
Cattell Fund
c/o Christina L. Williams, Ph.D.
Department of Psychology and Neuroscience
Genome Sciences Research Building II – 3rd Floor
572 Research Drive – Box 91050
Duke University
Durham, NC 27708
Phone: (919) 660-5638 (for Fed Ex use only, please email if information is needed)
Fax: (919) 660-5798
Email:
cwilli@duke.edu
