Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'name': 'provider', 'content': 'snappages'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=Edge'}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': 'Jubilee Church, Church in Woodstock, Brice Fogle'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'Jubilee Church in Woodstock, GA - Know God. Find Freedom. Discover Purpose. Make a Difference.'}

Body Text:
Jubilee Church - Woodstock - Acts of Kindness
Home
Who We Are
About Us
Beliefs
Revive
Restore
Mozambique
Kids
Youth
Media
Live
Sermons
Other Resources
Next Steps
Communication Card
Growth Track
Small Groups
Baptism Signup
alpha
Events
Give
Legacy
Resources
Prayer & Fasting
Acts of Kindness
Acts of Kindness
Spread Kindness with a Purpose
Small things done with great love can change the world! A random Act of Kindness is simple, effective, and a fun way to show the love of Jesus to people around you! With each act, simply give an Act of Kindness Card to let them know they are noticed and loved by God! See how one act of kindness can make an incredible difference!
1. Pay for someone's gas
2. Take out the garbage for an elderly or a neighbor who is disabled.
3. Leave an encouraging note or surprise in items you are donating, selling, or returning
4. Deliver fresh-baked cookies to a neighbor or co-worker
5. Bring fresh flowers to someone
6. Mow someone's yard for free.
7. Pay for someone's coffee behind you in the drive-through.
8. Pay for someone's fast food meal behind you in the drive-through.
9. Send a note of encouragement to someone.
10. Give baked goods or a small gift to the postman or delivery person.
11. Leave a big tip for your server at a restaurant.
12. Help someone who you know is struggling financially.
13. Pay for someone's meal or dessert at a restaurant.
14. Bake goodies and take them to the police station, fire station, or hospital.
15. Take a box of doughnuts to a school, office, etc.
16. Cook a meal for a neighbor or co-worker.
17. Help tutor a struggling student.
18. Pay for someone's groceries that is behind you in line.
19. Have your kids draw pictures for your neighbors, write an encouraging note on the back, and drop them off in their mailboxes. Include an Acts of Kindness card!
20. As you walk, bike, or jog around your neighborhood, pray for protection over the families of each household. Let your neighbors know you’re praying for them.
21. Call a local nursing home or retirement community and ask if there's anything you can do to help the residents with groceries or other practical needs. Drop items off with notes of encouragement!
© Jubilee Church - 2023
powered by
SnapPages
