Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1', 'id': 'wixDesktopViewport'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Wix.com Website Builder'}
{'name': 'wix-dynamic-custom-elements', 'content': 'DropDownMenu'}
{'name': 'format-detection', 'content': 'telephone=no'}
{'name': 'skype_toolbar', 'content': 'skype_toolbar_parser_compatible'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-Wix-Meta-Site-Id', 'content': '13b80460-bd1c-4b87-a153-442a902e74e0'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-Wix-Application-Instance-Id', 'content': '0584ac24-be16-4919-abc8-2df130f80370'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-Wix-Published-Version', 'content': '168'}
{'http-equiv': 'etag', 'content': 'bug'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'Keys of Change USA is a charity formed by individuals who deeply believe that playing music can make this world a better place. '}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Keys of Change USA'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'Keys of Change USA is a charity formed by individuals who deeply believe that playing music can make this world a better place. '}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.keysofchangeusa.org'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Keys of Change USA'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': 'Keys of Change USA, keys of change'}
{'name': 'google-site-verification', 'content': 'ZaFNvJoha-PcaqMwNsjdibhcx1yLvRJjrZMZkQhDKH4'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'name': 'twitter:title', 'content': 'Keys of Change USA'}
{'name': 'twitter:description', 'content': 'Keys of Change USA is a charity formed by individuals who deeply believe that playing music can make this world a better place. '}

Body Text:
Keys of Change USA
top of page
donate now
We need your vote!
Charity Film Awards 2024
Annual Report 2022
Home
About
Our Team
Watch
Financials
Our Work
Oaxaca
Accra
Chennai
Quito
Andes
Fukushima
World Youth Sinfonietta
Join Us
Support
More
Use tab to navigate through the menu items.
Our global work
Keys of Change is a global charity providing access to music education to young people around the world. Music is a universal language that transcends borders, cultures, and even time. For young people coming from difficult circumstances, the transformative power of music can be life-changing. In our projects, from the slums of India to children homes in Ghana and evacuation centres in Fukushima, music has the power to uplift, inspire, and empower. By offering a sense of community and belonging, music can help young people overcome feelings of isolation and hopelessness. Through the discipline of practice and performance, music can instill confidence and cultivate a sense of self-worth. Music has the ability to transcend social, economic, and cultural boundaries, giving young people a voice and a way to express themselves. In turn, this empowerment can help young people reach their full potential and create more hopeful futures for themselves and their communities, all around the world.
Learn More
Get to Know Us
Keys of Change; a global beacon of hope, transforming lives through the universal language of music. With a vibrant, passionate melody, we create magic across international borders, uniting hearts and minds. Our mission: to empower, inspire, and uplift those in need, giving them the courage to overcome adversity and embrace a hopeful future. Join us in this harmonious journey, where together, we can strike the right chord and make a lasting impact on lives worldwide.
Learn More
Chennai Youth Sinfonietta
Breaking Barriers
Keys of Change first came to Chennai in May 2019. Western classical music has a limited presence in South India but interest has been increasing. There was no regular orchestra or youth orchestra performing in the city, yet more and more young students are learning Western instruments. Keys of Change became part of a group of partners assisting in the creation of a youth orchestra in the city of Chennai, which would be open to players of all levels and backgrounds, but particularly to those contending with difficulties in life. It aimed to be an empowerment opportunity for all those involved.
Learn more
Fukushima Youth Sinfonietta
A Beacon of Hope
The Fukushima Youth Sinfonietta is one of the most positive things to emerge from the devastation of the 2011 earthquake and tsunami in northern Japan. Set up by UK charity Keys of Change in partnership with schools in Fukushima, initially to bring hope to the young people in the area, the orchestra has made rapid musical strides and has already performed in the Queen Elizabeth Hall in London (2014 and 2019), Tokyo Opera City (2015), Boston Symphony Hall (2016), Bangkok Siam Pic Ganesha Theatre (2017) and Suntory Hall (2018).
Learn more
Accra "Keys" Youth Orchestra
From Rhythms to Empowerment
Keys of Change is committed to nurturing young musicians in Accra, empowering them with skills that will last a lifetime. Keys of Change has been involved in Ghana since 2018, providing music education and performance opportunities to young Ghanaians who come from harsh and deprived backgrounds. With programmes like the Accra Youth Sinfonietta, which we helped launch in 2019, and music classes at Kinder Paradise children's home, we
use music as a tool to improve the lives of Ghanaian children.
Learn more
Santa Cecilia Youth Orchestra
Symphony of Dreams
The empowering effect of music on young Mexican minds is evident in the outskirts of Oaxaca.
Our programme in Oaxaca supports the musical education of 50 young students living on the outskirts of the city, in a community next to the landfill. The motto of the community is “while Oaxaca gives us their garbage, we give them back music”. Since 2021 Keys of Change has enabled two teachers to be based there or to visit regularly. Together, they provide more than 60 hours of classes a month.
Learn more
Cerritos "Keys" Brass Band
Echoes of the Andes
“A village without music is a village without a soul”, says a local proverb, and so the village of Cerritos, located deep in the mountains of the Ecuadorian Andes. Responding to a request from local community representatives, we launched a new programme in Ecuador involving 20 young people. This group, who live in a village deep in the Andes, had been dreaming of creating a wind and brass band in order to preserve their unique culture and ancestral traditions. With the help of Keys of Change, this dream is now a reality.
Learn more
Quito "Keys" Guitar Group
Strings of Triumph
In Ecuador, the country where we started teaching music in 2011, our music programme goes from strength to strength. Ecuador is the first musical project Keys of Change created back in 2011. With the help of our local partner, the Condor Trust for Education, we continue to support the musical education of twenty children from deprived backgrounds who live in and around Quito.
Learn more
World Youth Sinfonietta
Harmonising the World
Keys of Change has launched its Digital World Youth Sinfonietta, bringing together young musicians from around the world for an extraordinary virtual musical experience. With talented musicians from countries such as Mexico, India, Russia, Ghana, and Ecuador, this innovative initiative combines technology with artistic expression, connecting young people from diverse backgrounds and cultures, and providing them with the opportunity to create music together. Despite the challenges posed by the pandemic, the digital World Youth Sinfonietta is a shining example of how creativity and community can still thrive in the face of adversity.
Learn more
Join Our Global Mission
We are seeking passionate music educators
Are you looking for a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to teach music in some of the most vulnerable communities around the world?  We are currently recruiting talented and passionate music educators to join our team and work in our programs in various locations around the globe. As a Keys of Change music teacher, you'll have the chance to work with students from diverse backgrounds and inspire them to pursue their musical passions. You'll be part of a team that's committed to making a difference and helping students unlock their full potential. If you're ready for an adventure and to make a positive impact through music education, we want to hear from you.
Learn more
Subscribe to our monthly newsletter "Chopin Around the World"
Created and
curated
by
Keys of Change
founder
Panos Karan
First name
Last name
Email
I agree to the terms & conditions
Subscribe
Thanks for subscribing!
© 2023 by KEYS OF CHANGE USA (EIN 82-0614802). All rights reserved.
bottom of page
