Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'x-ua-compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge'}
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': '\n    \n  '}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}

Body Text:
Leading Edge Healthcare Professionals | A team of professionals helping healthcare businesses improve and grow.
Skip to main content
Leading Edge Healthcare Professionals
Member Login
Home
About Us
Services
Think Tank
Articles
Members
Apply
Contact Us
Covid-19 Information
Member Login
Growing Healthcare Through a Community Approach
What's your healthcare direction?
Leading Edge Healthcare Professionals, Ltd.,
(LEHP) is a team of highly experienced professionals helping healthcare businesses improve and grow.
We know how hard it is to run a practice in the face of regulatory and technological change and still keep an eye on the future. LEHP formed to provide comprehensive and innovative solutions for physician practices, healthcare facilities and related groups. We’re like a ‘doctor’s bag’ of complementary services to benefit medical practices.
We have it covered.
We didn’t know how much we needed help. The outside perspective and experience of the LEHP team meant we could move fast, plug in resources and make a real difference for the practice and our patients. Don’t miss an opportunity to work with LEHP.
–
C. Stockwell, Director of Operations
TMS Patient Care, Tallahassee, Florida
You may require a combination of realignment and new services, upgrading technology, or re-skilling on regulatory actions. You may just need a new face to your customers.
The multidisciplinary nature of LEHP means you receive the 360 degree perspective of an experienced team that understands the many moving parts in healthcare organizations and the pressures that practices undergo to deliver the best quality care everyday while meeting the ever-increasing challenges of today’s healthcare environment.
We help medical professionals start new practices, improve upon or grow existing practices, form Independent Practice Associations (IPA), develop ancillary services, negotiate with payers, or develop strategic initiatives. We accomplish this by understanding practice needs and recommending services, technologies and process improvements to affect vital change.
Think about this:
Letting your customers set your standards is a dangerous game, because the race to the bottom is pretty easy to win. Setting your own standards, and living up to them, is a better way to profit.
Not to mention a better way to make your day worth all the effort you put into it.
-Seth Godin
Latest Articles
Upcoming Speaker 6.28.2023
By Jennifer Turner | Posted June 27, 2023
Jon Fowler - Upcoming Speaker
read more
Raleigh – Leading Edge Healthcare Professionals is pleased to announce Jordan Duecker as our guest speaker at our April 26, 2023 convening.
By Jennifer Turner | Posted April 17, 2023
Manhattan Institute for Policy Research (MI) is a think-tank whose mission is to develop and disseminate new ideas that foster greater economic choice and individual responsibility.
read more
©2024 Leading Edge Healthcare Professionals
