Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'The mission of Lincoln Community Health Center is to provide comprehensive primary and preventive health care in a courteous, professional and personalized manner. As a leader in the provision of community health care, Lincoln Community Health Center is committed to collaborating with other institutions dedicated to the continuous improvement in services being provided to decrease health disparities, while assuring access to all.'}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': 'health, doctors, dukemychart, Lincoln, provider, historic, durham, north carolina, medicine, family, adult, dental, Satellite Sites, pediatrics, behaviorial'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 4.5.31'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://lincolnchc.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/03/icon.png'}

Body Text:
Lincoln Community Health Center, Durham, NC
Drug Formulary
Home
About Us
Patient Services
Providers
Our Adult Medicine Providers
Our Behavioral Health Providers
Our Dental Providers
Our Family Medicine Providers
Our Pediatric Providers
Our Satellite Sites Providers
Careers  Newton
Contact Us
OUR LOCATIONS
Main Site
Durham Recovery Response Center
Early Intervention Clinic
Healthcare for the Homeless
Hillside Wellness Center
Holton Clinic
Lakewood
LiveWell Primary Care
Lyon Park  Clinic
Primary Care Clinic @ DCoDPH
Walltown Neighborhood Clinic
WIC SITES
PT EDUCATION
Diabetes
Diabetes Videos
Hypertension
Hypertension Videos
.
The Mission of
Lincoln Community Health Center
Our mission is to provide primary and preventive
health care in a courteous, professional,
and personalized manner.
Courtesy
Respect
Accessibility
Teamwork
Quality
Continuous
Improvement
Location
1301 Fayetteville St.
Durham, NC 27707
Get Directions
Hours
Monday - Thursday
8am - 8pm
Friday
8am - 5pm
4th & 5th Thursdays
9am - 8pm
Saturday
8am - 12pm
Center Hours & Appointments
LCHC MyChart
MyChart
Access your health information at home, on the go.
Sign In
IMPORTANT NOTICE REGARDING MANDATORY COVID-19 VACCINATION:
Lincoln
Community Health Center has instituted a mandatory vaccination requirement for
all
employees as a condition of employment
.
This requires all new hires to be “fully COVID vaccinated."
“Fully COVID vaccinated” currently means COVID-19 Proof of First and Second dose and Booster or proof of Bivalent dose or proof of the most recent COVID-l9 immunization.
Your vaccination status will need to be confirmed by providing proof of vaccination in a form satisfactory to Lincoln Community Health Center
after
an applicant receives a conditional offer of employment
. Lincoln Community Health Center has a process for receiving and evaluating vaccination exemption requests due to medical contraindication, disability, and sincerely held religious beliefs under applicable law.
An applicant seeking such an exemption should contact Human Resources to initiate that process
no later than two (2)
business days
after receiving a conditional offer of employment
. All information regarding vaccination status will be maintained in confidence in accordance with applicable law. Our policies on vaccination requirements and related COVID-19 protocols are subject to change based on changes in the law and applicable regulations, state and federal guidance, and trends within North Carolina and our local communities.
"Need help? Schedule an Application/ Enrollment Appointment"
Another option would be to go to the website
YourSpotYourShot
for a list of vaccination sites throughout North Carolina.
For Emergencies
English:
If you are experiencing a life threatening emergency, call 911 or go to your nearest Emergency Room.
After hours dial Lincoln at 919-956-4000 and you will be connected to our answering service at Duke Regional Hospital.
Spanish:
Si tiene una emergencia que pone en peligro la vida, llame al 911 o vaya a la sala de emergencias más cercana.
Después del horario de atención, marque Lincoln al 919-956-4000 y se lo conectará a nuestro servicio de contestador en el Duke Regional Hospital.
Lincoln Community Health Center
is the leader in providing accessible, affordable, high quality outpatient health care services to the medically underserved. LCHC collaborates with other community partners to strive for a goal of
“
100% Access and 0 Health Disparities
” in the Greater Durham community. LCHC is a Joint Commission accredited facility.
FTCA
The Health Resources and Services Administration (HRSA), in accordance with the Federally Supported Health Centers Assistance Act (FSHCAA), as amended, sections 224(g)-(n) of the Public Health Service (PHS) Act, 42 U.S.C. 233 (g)-(n), deems Lincoln Community Health Center, Inc. to be an employee of the Public Health Service, for the purposes of section 224. This act grants medical malpractice protection through the Federal Tort Claims Act (FTCA) to all eligible health care practitioners.
To learn more about the FTCA, please click
here
.
Accredited by:
The Joint Commission &
Primary Care Medical Home Certified
Recipient of:
HRSA FY2022
Health Center Quality Awards:
Recipient of:
HRSA FY2022
Health Center Quality Awards:
Recipient of:
HRSA FY2022
Health Center Quality Awards:
Recipient of:
Health Center Quality Awards:
Lincoln Community Health Center Foundation
Veterans:
Health Net Federal Services (Health Net)
Veterans Choice Program (VCP) Participant
YourSpotYourShot
News & Events
March 29, 2024 (Friday) the center will be closed in observance of the Good Friday Holiday
May 27, 2024 (Monday) the center will be closed in observance of Memorial Day
June 19, 2024 (Wednesday) the center will be closed in observance of the Juneteenth Holiday
July 4, 2024 (Thursday) the center will be closed in observance of the Independence Day
September 2, 2024 (Monday), the center will be closed in observance of the Labor Day Holiday
Join the Movement! Sign up to be a @CFAHC advocate today. https://t.co/zYAWwNm2R7 #AccessistheAnswer
Fiesta event in June for patients and community. Contact number for more information 
919-681-3049
National Get fit Don’t Sit day.

https://t.co/muCKOZV40s
LCHC gearing up for National Get Fit Day! https://t.co/MImQsDviUO
LCHC_Durham: Dress in Blue Day https://t.co/JYCiuA35yO
Lincoln Community Health Center © 2016 | All Rights Reserved
Related Links
Employee Portal
Drug Formulary
Privacy Policy
Feedback
Español
Make A Donation
Drug Formulary
Español
