Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'Find information on Aid and Incentives for Municipalities (AIM).'}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': 'aid, incentives, AIM, municipalities, financial data'}
{'http-equiv': 'content-language', 'content': 'en-US'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Office of the New York State Comptroller'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.osc.ny.gov/local-government/data/aid-and-incentives-municipalities-aim'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Aid and Incentives for Municipalities (AIM)'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'Find information on Aid and Incentives for Municipalities (AIM).'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://www.osc.ny.gov/sites/default/files/other/images/2018-09/social-media-default-card.png'}
{'property': 'og:image:type', 'content': 'image/png'}
{'property': 'og:image:width', 'content': '200'}
{'property': 'og:image:height', 'content': '200'}
{'property': 'og:image:alt', 'content': 'NYS Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli'}
{'property': 'og:updated_time', 'content': 'Fri, 12/08/2023 - 10:02'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary'}
{'name': 'twitter:description', 'content': 'In each State fiscal year, the Aid and Incentives for Municipalities (AIM) program provides state aid to all of New York’s cities (other than New York City), towns and villages. While AIM payments to cities are made at various times throughout the year, towns and villages receive their AIM payments annually in September.This website will be updated if there are changes to the AIM program.'}
{'name': 'twitter:site', 'content': '@NYSComptroller'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=0.66'}
{'name': 'MobileOptimized', 'content': 'width'}
{'name': 'HandheldFriendly', 'content': 'true'}

Body Text:
Aid and Incentives for Municipalities (AIM) | Office of the New York State Comptroller
Skip to main content
It appears that your web browser does not support JavaScript, or you have temporarily disabled scripting.
Login
Subscribe
Translate
Join Our Team
×
Disclaimer
This Google™ translation feature is provided for informational purposes only.
The New York State Office of the State Comptroller's website is provided in English. However, the "Google Translate" option may help you to read it in other languages.
Google Translate™ cannot translate all types of documents, and it may not give you an exact translation all the time. If you rely on information obtained from Google Translate™, you do so at your own risk.
The Office of the State Comptroller does not warrant, promise, assure or guarantee the accuracy of the translations provided. The State of New York, its officers, employees, and/or agents are not liable to you, or to third parties, for damages or losses of any kind arising out of, or in connection with, the use or performance of such information. These include, but are not limited to:
damages or losses caused by reliance upon the accuracy of any such information
damages incurred from the viewing, distributing, or copying of such materials
Because Google Translate™ is intellectual property owned by Google Inc., you must use Google Translate™ in accord with the Google license agreement, which includes potential liability for misuse:
Google Terms of Service.
Close
Office of the NEW YORK
STATE COMPTROLLER
NYS Comptroller Thomas P. DiNapoli
Toggle navigation
Main navigation
About
GET
to Know
New York State Comptroller
Thomas P. DiNapoli
Read BIO
Learn About the Comptroller's Office
Explore Career Opportunities
Read "2023 Year in Review" Report
GET to Know
New York State Comptroller
Thomas P. DiNapoli
Learn About the Comptroller's Office
Explore Career Opportunities
Read "2023 Year in Review" Report
Unclaimed Funds
Retirement
New York State and Local Retirement System (NYSLRS)
NYS Common Retirement Fund
Local Government
Agencies
Vendors
Reports
All Reports
Audits
Annual Comprehensive Financial Report
Cash Basis Reports
New York State Budget Analysis and Financial Reporting
New York City Economic and Fiscal Monitoring
Open Book New York
Newsroom
Login
Subscribe
Join Our Team
Search
Search
Home
Local Government
Local Government Data
Aid and Incentives for Municipalities (AIM)
Search
Search
Search
Search
Menu
Local Government
Audits of Local Governments
Financial Toolkit for Local Officials
Fiscal Monitoring
Justice Court Fund
Local Government Data
Publications
Real Property Tax Cap
Required Reporting
Resources for Local Officials
Training
Contact Us
Aid and Incentives for Municipalities (AIM)
In each State fiscal year, the Aid and Incentives for Municipalities (AIM) program provides state aid to all of New York’s cities (other than New York City), towns and villages.
While AIM payments to cities are made at various times throughout the year, towns and villages receive their AIM payments annually in September.
This website will be updated if there are changes to the AIM program.
The 2019-20 Enacted State Budget eliminated aid for 1,325 towns and villages determined to be less reliant on AIM. At that time, the State established AIM-Related payments which continued funding for the impacted towns and villages in the amounts that they had previously received through AIM in State Fiscal Year 2018-2019. The Office of the State Comptroller (OSC) was required to withhold certain county sales tax revenues and to make AIM-Related payments, paid in December and May each year, pursuant to Chapter 59 of the Laws of 2019.
The 2020-21 Enacted State Budget established in law a process for making AIM-Related payments to towns and villages in Erie County and Nassau County. Officials from the Erie County Fiscal Stability Authority (EFSA), the Buffalo Fiscal Stability Authority (BFSA) and the Nassau County Interim Finance Authority (NIFA) were required by Chapter 55 of the Laws of 2020 to return to OSC the amount of sales tax distribution needed to make AIM-Related payments to towns and villages in Erie County and Nassau County each May and December.
The 2022-23 Enacted State Budget eliminated AIM-Related payments and the withholdings from county sales tax collections used to fund them.
Beginning in July 2022, all cities (other than New York City) and 1,465 towns and villages received AIM payments from the State, pursuant to Chapter 55 of the Laws of 2022. All towns and villages that previously received AIM-Related payments now receive AIM payments, in the same amounts, beginning in September 2022 and each September thereafter. Cities, towns and villages that previously received AIM payments will continue to receive these payments in the same amount and month.
For more information related to AIM and AIM-Related payments:
Chapter 55 of the Laws of 2022 [pdf]
Chapter 59 of the Laws of 2019 [pdf]
Chapter 55 of the Laws of 2020 [pdf]
AIM Payment Amounts and Payment Months by Municipality [xlsx]
(last updated December 2023)
"Aid and Incentives for Municipalities: New York State's Local Revenue Sharing Program" [pdf]
OSC, February 2022
Provides an overview and history of the AIM program.
×
Newsletter Sign-Up Confirmation
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
Thank you for subscribing to the Comptroller's Weekly Newsletter!
Tell us more about you to receive content related to your area or interests.
ZIP Code
Interests
Agriculture
Education
Environment
Gaming
Healthcare
Higher Education
Housing
Infrastructure
Labor
Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual & Transgender
Local Government
Minority & Women-Owned Business Enterprises
NYC Budget
Pension Fund Investment
Pension & Retirement
Public Corruption
State Budget
Transportation
Veterans
Update
Leave this field blank
Close
You must have JavaScript enabled to use this form.
SUBSCRIBE TO THE COMPTROLLER'S WEEKLY NEWSLETTER
SUBSCRIBE
Leave this field blank
OUR OFFICE
About Comptroller DiNapoli
About the Comptroller's Office
Career Opportunities
Intergovernmental and Community Affairs
Newsroom
Procurement Opportunities
TOOLS
Fiscal Monitoring
NYS Payroll Online
Open Book New York
Retirement Online
Search for Lost Money
Statewide Financial System
More...
INITIATIVES
Comptroller's Legislative Program
Investing in New York
Minority- and Women-Owned Business Enterprises (MWBEs)
HELP
Contact Us
Events
Forms
Freedom of Information Law (FOIL)
Legal Opinions
Report Government Fraud
How would you rate our website?
Site Index
|
Career Opportunities
|
Contact Us
|
Privacy and Links Policies
|
Regulations
|
Accessibility
|
FOIL
