Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'Description', 'content': "8 Shaft Weaving Kit;\xa0 Makes 2 silk scarves. Featured in Heddlecraft May/June 2020***NEW***\r\nWe're still dyeing silk, so there could be a 2-week delay before your kit mails--thank you for your patience.Treenway Silks donates a minimum of 10% of ", 'a': '', 'luminius': '', 'stream': '', '(als)"': '', 'kit': '', 'sales': '', 'to': '', 'als': '', 'association,': '', 'help': '', 'find': '', 'cure.': '', '&nbsp;"': ''}
{'id': 'p7PM3', 'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width'}

Body Text:
Product Details | Kit - Weaving - Limited Edition "A Luminous Stream (ALS)" Scarves Kit | Weaving | Kits | Treenway Silks
Silk Yarns | Fibers | Threads & Ribbons
≡
Home
Shop Yarns
Color Now! Dyed Yarns
Jorie II & Jorie III Yarn
Zola & Yasulyn (12/2 Yarn)
Kiku Yarn (20/2)
Taiyō & Gekkō (30/2 Yarn)
Myōjō (60/2) Yarn
Reeled Silk Yarns
Silk-Blend Yarns
Silk Noil Yarns
Other Silk Yarns
Natural-Dyes Yarns
65 Roses Variegated Yarns
Novelty Silk Yarn
Silk on Cones
Undyed 100% Bombyx (Mulberry) Silk Yarns
Spun Silk Yarns
Reeled Silk Yarns
Noil Silk Yarns
Undyed Silk-blend Yarns
Undyed Wild Silk Yarns
Undyed Ribbon Hanks
Yarns for Knitters (Dyed & Undyed)
DK/Worsted Weight
Sport Weight
Fingering/Sock Weight
Lace Weight
Lace/Thread weight
Cobweb (singles)
Silk Ribbon Hanks
Kits
Dye My Yarn
Wind My Yarn
Yarn Sample Cards
Shop Threads & Ribbons
65 Roses® Colorways (helping fund research for cystic fibrosis)
Harmony (silk floss thread)
Serenity
Shinju
Tranquility (fine cord)
Zen Shin
Ribbon - 3.5mm
Ribbon - 7mm
Ribbon - 13mm
Rose Charts
Hand-Dyed (solid colors)
Eyelash
Harmony (6-strand silk floss)
Serenity (8/2 reeled thread)
Shinju
Tranquility (fine cord thread)
Zen Shin (20/2 spun thread)
Ribbon - 3.5mm
Ribbon - 7mm
Montano (hand-painted) colorways
Harmony (6-strand silk floss)
Serenity (8/2 reeled thread)
Tranquility (fine cord thread)
Ribbon - 3.5mm
Ribbon - 7mm
Natural-Dye Colors
Harmony (6-strand silk floss)
Zen Shin (20/2 spun thread)
Threads & Ribbons by Size
Eyelash
Harmony (6-strand silk floss)
Serenity (8/2 reeled thread)
Shinju
Tranquility (fine cord thread)
Zen Shin (20/2 spun thread)
Ribbon - 2mm
Ribbon - 3.5mm
Ribbon - 7mm
Ribbon - 13mm
Ribbon - 26mm
Sari Silks
Designer Kits & Charts
DebBee's Designs
Kelly Clark Studio
Rosewood Manor
Threedles Needle Art Designs
More Designers
Thread & Ribbon Collections
"ALL"  (one of each) threads
"ALL"  (one of each) ribbons
Undyed Ribbon Hanks
T&R Sample Cards
Shop Fibers
Hand-Dyed Tussah Silk
Salt Spring Island colorways (multi-color)
Hand-dyed (single color)
Hand dyed Bombyx and blends
Undyed Roving/Sliver/Tops
Bombyx (mulberry)
Tussah & Wild Silks
Silk Blends
Cocoons (Dyed & Undyed)
Hankies & Caps (Dyed & Undyed)
Rods (Dyed & Undyed)
Strippings (Dyed & Undyed)
Throwsters (Dyed & Undyed)
Other Silk Fibers
Kits
Sample Cards
FREE Weaving Draft
Shop Books & Patterns
Books & Patterns
Free Weaving Drafts
Shop Gift Certificates
Shop Kits
Fiber
Knitting
Threads
Weaving
4 or more shafts
Rigid Heddle
Shop Sample Cards
Shop Sari Silks
Shop Silk Fusion
Getting Started
Silk for Silk Fusion
Hand-painted Salt Spring Island colorways (multi-color)
Hand-dyed (single color)
Hand-dyed Hankies
Undyed Silk for Silk Fusion
JoSonja & other Silk Fusion supplies
Shop Skin Care
Shop Specials
Silk Yarns
Silk Fibers
All About Silk
About Silk
Silk Yarns & Blends
Silk Fibers
Treenway Silks Colors
Silk How-To
Silk Fusion
Knitting
Needle Arts
Spinning
Weaving
Silksters Galleries
Weaving
Knitting
Needle Arts
Silk Fusion
Jewelry, 3D, Other
About Us
Contact Us
Who We Are
Newsletter Sign Up
Founder's Page
About Ordering
Terms & Conditions
Account
Shopping Cart
Alternate Order Form
Mail Order Form
Wholesale Inquiry
Call Toll-Free from USA or Canada:
1.888.383.7455 (SILK)
**toll free # temporarily not working--phone company contacted; complicated to fix; will take until the end of May.  I apologize for the inconvenience**
Landline Phone:
303.233.7455 (SILK)
Both phone lines ring directly to Treenway Silks.
Email:
info@treenwaysilks.com
Fax:
303.223.3411
Mail:
Treenway Silks
2060 Miller Court
Lakewood, CO  80215-1325
USA
Visitors by appointment only, please
Cart is Empty
|
View Cart
»
Store
»
Kits
»
Weaving
» Kit - Weaving - Limited Edition "A Luminous Stream (ALS)" Scarves Kit
Kit - Weaving - Limited Edition "A Luminous Stream (ALS)" Scarves Kit
Click to Enlarge
Price:
$144.95
Kit:
-- Select --
Yarn + Draft
Quantity:
LIMITED EDITION 8-Shaft, "A Luminous Stream (ALS)" Silk Scarves Weaving Kit
Featured in
Heddlecraft
May/June 2020--the "Turned Beiderwand" issue.
Treenway Silks donates a minimum of 10% of sales of the "A Luminous Stream (ALS)" silk scarves kit to ALS Association, to help find a cure.
KIT
:
This is Turned Beiderwand with Supplemental Warp.  Never done supplemental warp before (and scared of it?)  Not to worry--it's not difficult--and you don't need a second beam--when you have great instructions by
Karen Donde
.
Your kit includes instructions, but if you've never used a supplemental warp before,
I highly recommend getting the May/June 2020
Heddlecraft
issue
--it's like having your own personal instructor beside you at your loom!
You can purchase the
Heddlecraft
issue here
Karen provides two one threading and two tie ups/treadlings (Turned Beiderwand and Turned Half Dukagang), but with the M/J 2020 Heddlecraft issue, you can apply any of the structures to your scarves, making your scarves uniquely "you".
Your
Limited Edition "A Luminous Stream (ALS)" 2-Scarves Kit
makes two scarves, each about 9.25" wide and 65" long, finished with hand-rolled hem.
The kit includes:
900 yds ( 90g) of
Kiku
(20/2 Bombyx silk, aka 'mulberry' silk), Limited Edition Hand-painted colorway "Mountain Stream"
2,973 yds (169g) of
Silken Cloud
(60/2x2, 70% silk/30% cotton),
color #956 Periwinkle
Karen recommends a 12 dent reed for your 8-shaft loom.
COLOR
:
I wanted to make this kit extra special. Inspired by the Rocky Mountains, I created "Mountain Stream" colorway (blues for the stream, plus greens and periwinkle, reflecting the trees and mountains) for the supplemental warp.
The luminous silk stripes (streams) of supplemental warp, on Karen's beautifully designed scarf, against the "purple mountains majesty,"
Silken Cloud
ground cloth, inspired the name "A Luminous Stream (ALS)"
THE BACK STORY
(yup, there's always a story!):
Our collaboration (
Heddlecraft
magazine, Karen Donde and Treenway Silks) began July 2019 at
Intermountain Weavers Conference
in Durango, Colorado.
I signed up for Karen Donde's workshop
Turned Beiderwand: One Threading, Multiple Structures
because I love being able to weave different structures on the same warp. And after 20-some years of weaving, it was time to "get over" my fear of supplemental warps.
In advance of the workshop, Karen assigned each of the 15 students one of three ways to manage two-layers of warp and provided terrific Back-to-Front warping instructions so we could arrive with our looms warped, but not tied onto front apron rod.
True Confessions:  I've only warped Front-to-Back, so I read over the instructions multiple times to understand the objectives, and then applied that to my Front-to-Back method and it went smoothly (thank goodness!)  I had a silk ground warp and silk supplemental warp.
Weavers are so inventive...it was an education to see how "single back beam" loom owners (like me) used various supplies from the hardware store to separate the ground warp layer from the supplemental warp layer as they passed over the back beam.
The first morning, Karen walked us through the tie-on method for each of the three ways she had assigned us.  And then we were weaving, just like that!  Silly me to have been afriad of supplemental warps for so many years!
The workshop was SO MUCH FUN!!  Turned Beiderwand just begs to use silk, so I suggested we collaborate. Robyn Spady (
Heddlecraft
publisher/editor) was also teaching a workshop at the conference and was interested in Karen's take on Turned Beiderwand. The three of us had dinner, hatched the idea of a Turned Beiderwand themed
Heddlecraft
issue supported with a Treenway Silks scarves kit.
The ALS Connection:
The three of us agreed that we wanted a philanthropic aspect to the Treenway Silks' scarves kit.
At the time, Treenway Silks' dyer, Anne, was on
bereavement leave
.  Her US veteran husband had been diagnosed with ALS in February 2017. Dennis passed away January 13, 2019.
Robyn Spady's paternal grandfather passed away from ALS while relatively young.  He didn't live to see his children marry or have children of their own.  In the last days of his life at the hospital, his oldest son met a young nursing student.  They would go on to marry and have children.  These were Robyn's parents.
A few months after Robyn's father passed away in 2015, she was informed that he had lived his entire adult life in fear of developing ALS after watching how it had ravaged not only his father's life but affected many other family members.
Karen, with no direct connection to ALS, readily supported the cause.
Scarves designed and woven by Karen Donde
photos 1 & 2 are Turned Beiderwand.  Photos 3 & 4 are Turned Half Dukagang...this one has the small periwinkle 'lines" crossing the streams.
images taken by Treenway Silks' photographer Thom Harrod.
»
Continue Shopping
