Meta Information:
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Male Contraceptive Initiative'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Male Contraceptive Initiative'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'Male Contraceptive Initiative Overview'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.malecontraceptive.org/'}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': 'male contraception, male birth control, male birth control pill, male pill, vasectomy, the snip, prostate, testicle, epididymitis, contraceptive methods, forms of birth control, family planning, sperm motility, male fertility'}
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': '/files/theme/Thumbnail.jpg'}
{'property': 'og:image:type', 'content': 'image/jpg'}
{'property': 'og:image:width', 'content': '600'}
{'property': 'og:image:height', 'content': '313'}
{'property': 'fb:app_id, article:author'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'name': 'twitter:title', 'content': 'Male Contraceptive Initiative'}
{'name': 'twitter:description', 'content': "Male Contraceptive Initiative's (\u200bMCI) mission is to facilitate research and development of male contraceptives for people around the world and to build awareness among researchers, donors and the general public about the demand for and status of novel male contraceptive methods."}
{'name': 'twitter:image', 'content': 'https://www.malecontraceptive.org/files/theme/Thumbnail.jpg'}

Body Text:
Male Contraceptive Initiative - Home
Home
Who We Are
Staff and Board
Contraceptive Accelerator Network
Youth Initiatives
Vision and Mission
History
FAQS
What We Do
Advocacy
Funding
Our Grantees
MCI Fellows
What Is In Development
The Drug Development Pipeline
Vasectomy Alternatives & Male Contraception
NHRMC Database
Male Reproduction and Contraception
More Info
Why It Matters
Market Research
MCI's Impact
Male Contraception and the SDGs
LGBTQIA+
Personas
Get Involved
Partnerships
Clinical Trials
Blog
Resources
Digital Manual
Store
>
Apparel
Donate
Contact
MCI Press Kit
Male Contraceptive Initiative
Reproductive Autonomy for All
Support Us
Male Contraceptive Initiative (MCI) provides funding and advocacy support for the research & development of new male birth control methods.
Male Contraceptive Initiative Overview
Table of Contents
We endeavor to make the MCI website a primary resource for everything related to non-hormonal, reversible male contraception. In an effort to direct you to content that resonates most with you, we have created the following categories to help you navigate to the most appropriate content based on your needs and interests.
Please select the category that is most compelling to you below to be directed to that content:
Are there additional content categories you would like to see? Please
reach out to us
and tell us how we can better serve you and your needs!
​MCI Website Visitor Journeys
There is a considerable amount of content on the Male Contraceptive Initiative website. In an effort to help ensure you find everything that is important to you, we created a series of “road maps” to help guide various stakeholders to the
most compelling
content.
Select the persona that you most identify with below to avail the associated road map:
Are you not represented by any of these categories? Please
reach out to us
and tell us how we can better serve you and your needs!
Sign up to learn more!
MCI issues a monthly newsletter containing up-to-date information about male contraception research and development and issues related to the field. Please click the button below to sign up to receive this informative newsletter directly to your email's inbox each month!
Sign up!
What are the male birth control research activities MCI is supporting?
This section highlight some of the projects we are supporting in an effort make the work more accessible to the general public:
A single injection that ensures a man cannot cause a pregnancy for
years
and is completely reversible.
Our grantee Contraline has invented a proprietary hydrogel called
ADAM™
that is implanted into the vas deferens through a minimally invasive, outpatient procedure.
​The hydrogel works by blocking sperm from traveling through the vas deferens. Similar to intrauterine devices (IUDs) for women, Contraline’s contraceptive is designed to last for years and be reversible. MCI’s support will be used by Contraline to prepare for filing with the FDA and initiating first-in-human trials.
Learn more about Contraline
​A reversible male birth control that impacts the head of the sperm, preventing it from fertilizing an egg.
Our grantee Dr. Wei Yan and his team of researchers have developed a new compound derived from a Chinese herb called the
Thunder God vine (Tripterygium Wilfordii Hook F)
.
The compound works by causing the head of sperm to be malformed such that they are not able to connect with and fertilize a female egg. This effect only occurs while the compound is consumed, and normal function is fully restored after discontinuing use. MCI’s support allowed Dr. Yan and his team to explore the effects of the compound and publish their results.
​Because of MCI’s grant, our sister organization
Contraceptive Accelerator Network
is performing nonclinical studies on Triptonide that advance it towards human studies.
Learn more about Dr. Wei Yan
Our grantee Dr. Mario Buffone has been working in the field of sperm physiology for two decades. His lab seeks to understand the complex process of mammalian sperm capacitation, the change sperm undergo in the female reproductive tract that enables them to penetrate and fertilize an egg.
​Dr. Buffone is working to screen and identify drugs that are able to prevent the capacitation and therefore render sperm incapable of fertilizing an egg. MCI is supporting the Buffone lab’s studies with the intent of moving towards in vivo preclinical studies.
Learn More About Dr. Mariano Buffone
A biodegradable implant injected just below the skin’s surface that can deliver a male contraceptive over a sustained period of time.
Our grantee Dr. Rahima Benhabbour designs and fabricates delivery platforms for HIV prevention, cancer treatment, and contraception.
​Dr. Benhabbour launched her first start-up AnelleO, Inc. in 2016, focusing on developing 3D-printed intravaginal rings for the treatment of infertility. MCI’s support will help facilitate studies that develop and implement an injectable device that can carry drug and translate into human studies.
Learn More About Dr. Rahima Benhabbour
A daily, or even on-demand, method of male birth control that prevent sperm from being able to swim when taken.
Our grantee Dr. Gunda Georg’s group has published over 200 scientific articles on the design, synthesis, and evaluation of biologically active agents. In addition to male contraception, her lab investigates areas of cancer and female contraception.
​Dr. Georg's lab has focused on investigating the testis-specific serine kinase (TSSK) family. These proteins are expressed after sperm have been developed, and are likely involved in multiple steps that could make them excellent contraceptive targets. MCI’s support will help Dr. Georg’s team investigate the sperm-specific isoform of Na,K-ATPase, which is crucial for sperm motility (e.g., sperm’s ability to swim).
Learn More About Dr. Gunda Georg
Our grantee Dr. Mike O’Rand is the President and Chief Scientific Officer of Eppin Pharma, named after the protein EPPIN which is a critical component of sperm development.
Dr. O’Rand is developing a compound called
EP055
, a small organic compound that that targets EPPIN on the surface of sperm and prevents sperm from swimming. MCI’s support will help support Dr. O’Rand Investigational New Drug (IND)-enabling milestones that are required for Eppin Pharma to begin the process of entering first-in-man studies for EP055.
Learn More about Dr. Mike O'Rand
A reversible male birth control method that causes sperm to become sterile.
Our grantee Dr. Stephen L’Hernault and his lab have worked on spermatogenesis (i.e., sperm creation) and fertilization for over 30 years.
​Dr. L’Hernault is working on developing compounds that can block the function of the IZUMO1 protein, which is required to fertilize an egg. MCI’s support will help Dr. L’Hernault’s team to identify small compounds that reversibly block the function of the IZUMO1 protein.
Learn More About Dr. Steven L'Hernault
​A cohort of excited young researchers motivated by curiosity, ambition, and the social good associated with male birth control.
Our Fellowship program features a mix of graduate and postdoctoral trainees, all working towards creating non-hormonal, reversible male contraceptive methods.
​Our Fellows work on a diverse portfolio of projects that help move the male birth control forward. Our support allows our distinguished Fellows to focus on the research, publish data, and build the background they need to sustain a long career as an investigator.
Learn More About MCI's Fellows
An on-demand method of male birth control that you take just before sex.
Drs. Lonny Levin and Jochen Buck are professors at Weill Cornell Medicine and are working on inhibitors of soluble adenylyl cyclase (sAC) as
on-demand male contraceptives
. Their deep expertise in sAC keeps them attuned to the effects of inhibitors on sperm functions such as motility.
​MCI is supporting work that develops novel inhibitors of sAC as on-demand male contraceptives as well as translational research that assesses the pharmacodynamics of inhibitors on human sperm. These steps are crucial to understanding how the drug stays associated to sperm after ejaculation and its potential contraceptive efficacy.
Learn more about the Levin-Buck Laboratory
MCI's Funding Efforts
What are MCI's advocacy efforts to support male birth control?
This section highlights some of the advocacy and outreach efforts we conduct in order to illustrate the demand and need for male birth control:
Working to understand needs and perceptions to develop a menu of male contraceptives that meets everyone’s needs.
Our grantee Planned Parenthood North Central States (PPNCS) provides health care to nearly 115,000 people and health education to more than 99,000 people across a five-state region (Iowa, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Dakota and South Dakota) in the United States.
​With MCI’s support, PPNCS will engage in critical market research activities by using mixed methods surveys to engage critical stakeholders on their reproductive health needs and desires in hopes that this will help inform research and product development activities.
Learn More About PPNCS
Outsight4Development, Alstonia Impact, and DesireLine conducted a robust market research study across 7 distinct markets around the world to develop an understanding of the demand for male contraception, men’s interest in and preferences for novel forms of male birth control, and the level of trust that female partners have in their male partners to use birth control. Funding for the male respondent research was supported by funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. The Male Contraceptive Initiative provided funding to cover female partners of male respondents.
​Findings from this nationally/regionally representative study show that
there is significant interest for novel male contraceptives among men and women
. Men have interest in trying a new male contraceptive within a year of its availability, and higher interest in trying a new male contraceptive at some point. Female partners surveyed have high trust in men taking contraception, and have high interest in male partners taking contraception.
Read the International Market Research Report
Our Consumer Research Study was the largest survey in the United States in the past decade exclusive to sexually active men ages 18-44 and focused on developing a better understanding of their attitudes, needs and motivations regarding the future of male birth control.
​Developing a keen understanding of the family planning interests of communities domestically and internationally is a critical component of our market research activities. Our support of market research activities helps our grantees better understand the needs of those they’re developing contraceptives for, while framing the demand for male birth control methods in the general public.
Read MCI's Consumer Research Study
Supporting men and women preventing pregnancy as a unit.
Our Shared Risk publication advocates for creating a new ethical framework for assessing risks and benefits for new forms of male birth control.
​Currently, the risks associated with pregnancy focus solely on the physical. As women are the only ones capable of physically bringing a baby to term, current thinking prevents a fair assessment of the risks men face when it comes to pregnancy. Our work is a necessary step towards reframing the concept of risk such that it creates a mandate for providing more and better male birth control methods.
Read MCI's Shared Risk Publication
Facilitating a commercial pathway for male contraception driven by collaboration, transparency, and the public good.
Our Ideation Events bring together diverse, multi-disciplinary groups of subject matter experts in order to identify opportunities and challenges for the male birth control industry, while driving collaboration and innovation.
​Our initial ideation events have greatly aided in developing a shared understanding of how best to move the male birth control field forward, and helped us to create a network of collaborators to champion “Team Science” as a development mandate. Our support allows participants to engage in innovative problem-solving activities as they build professional relationships to help accelerate their work.
Read MCI's Ideation Event Report
Fostering a community of practice that brings together expertise from across the spectrum to get male birth control to market faster.
Our Lemonade Stand Webinar Series explores various aspects of the work necessary to develop the next generation of non-hormonal, reversible male contraception.
​Launched in response to the demand amongst the research community for more opportunities to engage and collaborate, our monthly webinars convene subject matter experts and the general public alike. Our support helps facilitate expanding people’s understanding of the male birth control field, demystify the science behind male contraception, and allow people to engage with each other more intimately.
Watch MCI's Lemonade Stand Webinars
Producing an engaging audio experience featuring subject matter experts and everyday people investigating the past, present, and future of male birth control.
Our audio series “Intended” is the only podcast solely dedicated to exploring the fascinating world of male birth control.
The series features interviews with a holistic set of stakeholders representing all facets of male birth control research and development, as well as the people seeking additional male methods of contraception in an effort to make the science of male contraceptives more accessible while also illustrating the interest in and demand for male birth control.
Learn More About Intended
Creating ​an educational platform that provides people with the foundational understanding of male reproductive biology and contraception.
Our Male Reproduction & Contraception primers provide an introduction to male reproductive biology that is easy-to-understand and engaging.
​The primers feature concise overviews of the individual components of the male reproductive system that afford readers the opportunity to better understand how this system works, as well as how it can be disrupted in order to develop the next generation of male contraception. Providing this foundational knowledge is critical to ensuring people’s understanding of the importance of these upcoming contraceptives.
Review MCI's Primers
Developing a ​database of potential targets that illustrates the breadth of male contraception research and development.
MCI’s Non-hormonal, Reversible Male Contraception Database features all of the non-hormonal male birth control targets that have been identified to date, including those that MCI is directly supporting financially.
​The database is a “living” entity that we update in an ongoing basis in an effort to keep the research community and general public abreast of the promising work that could lead to next generation male contraceptives. It seeks to answer two of the most pressing questions in the male birth control field: “What potential male contraceptives are out there?” and “When will they be available?”
Visit MCI's NHRMC Database
Designing a system of tools that facilitate creative brainstorming while developing a sense of shared empathy.
MCI’s Personas are fictional characters created to represent different user and beneficiary types that might use a product (e.g., male birth control) in a similar way.
​These personas are especially useful during ideation activities for new male contraceptives and related services as they allow for the extrapolation of user preferences to inform attributes, thereby removing some of the ambiguity inherent in new product design.
Meet MCI's Personas
Sharing an ​inclusive understanding of the needs of traditionally underserved communities.
MCI’s LGBTQIA+ content seeks to take into consideration the diversity of interests and needs of this community when developing the next generation of male contraception.
​Today’s youth will be tomorrow’s users of these new methods. Given that around 5% of young adults in the United States today identify as either transgender or nonbinary, there is a clear need to move beyond the gender binary in order to ensure future contraceptives meet a diversity of needs and preferences. On this page, we share details about different communities within the LGBTQIA+ spectrum in an effort to ensure their needs are understood and accounted for.
Read MCI's LGBTQIA+ Content
Making a ​clear connection between male contraception and the world’s most pressing challenges.
We studied the United Nation’s Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to identify ways in which new methods of male birth control can help the world achieve each of them.
​The SDGs are a collection of 17 interlinked global goals designed to be a "blueprint to achieve a better and more sustainable future for all", and were set up by the United Nations to be achieved by the year 2030. ​Through our work, we provide direct connections between each of the goals and male contraception in order to illustrate the potential, incredibly positive impact that new methods of male birth control can have in achieving our shared sustainability goals.
Learn About SDGs
Creating a ​multimedia learning journey that facilitates a holistic understanding of male contraception.
We collaborated with a team of students to develop a Digital Manual containing learning modules that empower students and the general public with the information necessary to understand the importance of male contraception.
MCI worked with Masters of Public Health students from the
University of Michigan’s School of Public Health
to create a fun, interactive educational system in order to provide additional learning opportunities for engaged audiences. Our co-created Digital Manual allows people to engage with the information they need and learn at their own pace.
Visit the Digital Manual
MCI's Advocacy Efforts
Male Reproduction & Contraception
The science behind male reproduction can be challenging, yet it is critical to understand the biology in order to know how the male contraceptives of the future will function. In an effort to make this science more accessible, we have developed a series of primers about male reproduction and contraception:
Male Reproduction & Contraception
Read MCI’s 2022 Annual Report
Male Contraceptive Initiative’s Annual Report details our granting strategy, the projects we support, as well as our innovative methods to promote an inclusive world of “team science.” Read the report today.
​
Read the REPORT
Read MCI's International Market Research Report
Male Contraceptive Initiative provided funding support for a robust international market research study designed to develop an understanding of the demand for male contraception, men’s interest in and preferences for novel forms of male birth control, and the level of trust that female partners have in their male partners to use birth control. ​
This microsite shares the study’s findings.
Read the Report
Read MCI’s Domestic Consumer Research Report
Male Contraceptive Initiative led a study to identify unmet needs and satisfaction with current contraceptive methods among a sample of men across key market segments. This report shares the study’s findings.
​
​
Download Report
Sign up to learn more!
MCI issues a monthly newsletter containing up-to-date information about male contraception research and development and issues related to the field. Please click the button below to sign up to receive this informative newsletter directly to your email's inbox each month!
Sign up!
Reproductive rights are in peril, and supporting organizations working to ensure reproductive autonomy is critical.
​Will you help support our vision of "
Reproductive Autonomy for All
"?
Donate
​Sign Up for Our Newsletter
*
Indicates required field
Email
*
Submit
​Donate to Male Contraceptive Initiative
​Your generous donation makes a difference!
Donate Now
​DONATE
|
CONTACT
|
PRIVACY
​©
Male Contraceptive Initiative
. All rights reserved.
Home
Who We Are
Staff and Board
Contraceptive Accelerator Network
Youth Initiatives
Vision and Mission
History
FAQS
What We Do
Advocacy
Funding
Our Grantees
MCI Fellows
What Is In Development
The Drug Development Pipeline
Vasectomy Alternatives & Male Contraception
NHRMC Database
Male Reproduction and Contraception
More Info
Why It Matters
Market Research
MCI's Impact
Male Contraception and the SDGs
LGBTQIA+
Personas
Get Involved
Partnerships
Clinical Trials
Blog
Resources
Digital Manual
Store
>
Apparel
Donate
Contact
MCI Press Kit
Support Us
