Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'Generator', 'content': 'Drupal 9 (https://www.drupal.org)'}
{'name': 'MobileOptimized', 'content': 'width'}
{'name': 'HandheldFriendly', 'content': 'true'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1, shrink-to-fit=no'}
{'http-equiv': 'x-ua-compatible', 'content': 'ie=edge'}

Body Text:
| Meals on Wheels of Durham
Skip to main content
Search
Search
Header Buttons
Donate
Pay for Meals
Search
Search
About Us
Meet our Staff
Meet our Board
Annual Report
Join Our Team
Join Our Mailing List
Volunteer
Volunteer Opportunities
Volunteer Application
Volunteer Spotlight
Volunteer Onboarding Mentorship Program
Volunteer Resources
Services
Our Services
Menu
How to Apply
Apply for Meals
Pay For Meals
Holiday Programs
Frequently Asked Questions
Donate
Donor Information
Day of Giving
Donate Now
Wish List
Day of Giving
Giving Challenge
Donate
Contact Us
Donate
Donate
Pay for Meals
Previous
Pause
Next
Volunteers Needed
Meals on Wheels Durham is launching its new 2024 Hot Meal Routes on Tuesday, January 23. These shorter and more optimized routes ensure more client can be served while creating meaningful connections. There are several routes open — SIGN UP TODAY…
Sign Up to Deliver
Volunteer Mentorship
Our newest initiative pairs seasoned volunteers with new volunteers in their first month to teach them how to provide our More Than a Meal experience to clients.
Become a Mentor
Volunteer
Fight Hunger & Isolation. Too many seniors in Durham are going hungry and feel disconnected from our community. Volunteer to pack and/or deliver nutritious meals—and see what a difference a kind word and smile can make.
Volunteer
Our Services
Learn more about our home-delivered meal services, More Than a Meal Programs, and ways you can apply.
Find Out More
WAYS TO GIVE
Learn more on how you can support Meals on Wheels Durham so no senior goes hungry at night.
Giving Opportunities
Updated COVID-19 Policy
Meals on Wheels Durham requires all staff and in-person volunteers to be fully vaccinated.
Read More
Meals on Wheels Durham is committed to enhancing the quality of life for homebound adults in our community. We are dedicated to serving older adults, people who are convalescing, and others who cannot provide proper nutrition for themselves by providing daily, nutritious meals and regular contact with compassionate volunteers—which helps our clients remain independent for as long as possible.
Together, we can deliver.
Our Services
Find out how Meals on Wheels Durham offers More Than a Meal.
Ways to Give
Help ensure no one is left behind as they age. Make an impact on a homebound senior in Durham today.
Volunteer
Deliver meals—and smiles—each weekday.
Why Meals on Wheels Durham
Meals on Wheels Durham delivers daily meals to homebound seniors in need in Durham County—and has done so for over 45 years. Our operations have grown considerably from our first 12 clients in 1975, and we remain diligent to meet the needs of our growing senior population. With the help from generous supporters, we continue to curb the rise in hunger and social isolation experienced by seniors.
Learn More
YOUR Contributions MAKE A DIFFERENCE
Meals on Wheels Durham provides so much more than a meal. With cadres of compassionate volunteers, staff, and supporters, we work diligently to show local seniors they're appreciated, valued, and remembered. Our team effort is an example of what wonderful things can happen when a community invested in caring for its own mobilizes for good.
Meals Served
+
200
K
Volunteers
+
500
Wellness Calls
+
100
K
Our Mission
Meals on Wheels Durham's volunteers and staff work together to enhance the quality of life for older adults and other community members who are homebound and unable to provide proper nutrition for themselves. Through daily meal delivery and regular contact with caring volunteers, we strive to positively impact our clients’ health, independence, and connectivity.
Support the Cause
2522 Ross Road
Durham, North Carolina 27703
919-667-9424
919-667-9458
Footer Menu #1
Ways to Give
Pay For Meals
Apply for Services
Login
Footer Menu #2
Volunteer
FAQ
Contact Us
©
Meals on Wheels Durham
. All Rights Reserved.  |  Website by:
OneEach Technologies
Wishlist
|
Menu
|
In the News
