Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1, shrink-to-fit=no'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'index, follow'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'A 501C3 Nonprofit Educational Archive Documenting, Preserving, and Promoting Modernist Architecture'}
{'content': 'usmodernist, modernist, modernism, modern, art, architecture, architect, design, architect, houzz, dwell, atomic ranch, Marcel Breuer, Helena Arahuete, Nathan Crowley, Charles Deaton, Joseph Eichler, Walter Gropius, Charles Gwathmey, Philip Johnson, Ray Kappe, Michelle Kaufmann, Pierre Koenig, Tom Kundig, John Lautner, Leo Marmol, Richard Meier, William Morgan, Richard Neutra, Ralph Rapson, Clifford Reid, Paul Rudolph, Eero Saarinen, Rudolf Schindler, Beverley Thorne, Frank Lloyd Wright'}

Body Text:
﻿
USModernist Archives
Architect and
House Archives
Architecture
Magazine Library
USModernist
Radio
Tours and
Events
Get Newsletter
Join Mod Squad
Volunteer
Books/Resources
Sponsorships
Get A Speaker
About Us
Donate
More!
Get Newsletter
Join Mod Squad
Volunteer
Books/Resources
Sponsorships
Get A Speaker
About Us
Documenting, Preserving, and Promoting Modernist 
					Residential Architecture
You cannot save something valuable without knowing where it is or why it is important. America’s brilliant mid-century Modernist houses are frequently endangered and torn down, largely because buyers, sellers, and realtors do not realize the importance of what they have or how to preserve, repair, and protect these livable works of art. With documentation on over 20,100 iconic houses and 130 important architects, and over 4.3 million pages of architecture and design magazines, USModernist is America’s largest open digital archive of Modernist houses, an
award-winning
nonprofit 501(c)(3) educational archive for the documentation, preservation, and promotion of residential Modernist architecture.
What’s a Modernist House?
What is a Modernist house? Modernist design is characterized by features such as combining traditionally separate common areas (like the living room and the dining room, for example), open interior floor plans with vaulted ceilings, large and numerous windows, flat or low pitch roofs, long exposed beams, extensive use of glass to bring in natural light, and unusual geometric forms. Early Modernist architects wanted to change the way people lived by making houses and objects more affordable through better materials, streamlined building, and family connectivity. Gone were formal living and dining rooms—instead, there was a large family space where kitchen, dining, and living rooms flow into each other–and smaller private bedrooms.
More than anything, Modernism creates feelings of optimism—a better, brighter future than the past.
Join Us
The Mod Squad is a thriving community of people dedicated to the love of Modernist residential design. Mod Squad members are into architecture, art, food, travel, furniture, fashion, and fun. Membership 
						in the Mod Squad connects you with like–minded people, building new and meaningful relationships.
Learn more
.
Help Us Document, Preserve, and Inform:
355
Podcast 
					Episodes
4.3
Million
Architecture Magazine Pages
165
Modernist House 
					Tours
20,500
Modernist Houses 
					Documented
Donate
Your gift assures that millions of page of documents, tens of thousands of photos, and hundreds of architect biographies have a continuous protected, maintained home and stay available to the public without charge. Your contribution insures people continue to access primary sources of Modernist information and inspiration for the architecture they love. All donations are tax-deductible.
Learn more
.
Featured In
Collaborative Partners
Hamptons 
		20th Century Modern
About USModernist
USModernist® is part of Modernist Archive, Inc., a 501(c)(3) nonprofit educational archive (EIN 26-3643357) providing donors, volunteers, and advocates the information and organization they require to passionately document, preserve, and promote residential Modernist architecture.
Donate
Contents
Architecture Magazine Library
Tours and Events
Sponsor
Join Mod Squad
Volunteer
Get A Speaker
About Us
Contents
Architect and House Archives
Search Archives
Books/Resources
USModernist Radio
Get the Newsletter
Terms of Service
Warning: Highly Addictive!
USModernist® is the largest open digital archive of midcentury Modernist houses in the world. Nearly every Wright, Neutra, Schindler, Lautner, and more - built and unbuilt. Enjoy!
5409 Pelham Road
Durham NC 27713 USA
George Smart HAIA, CEO,
919.740.8407
george@usmodernist.org
Copyright 2007-
USModernist®
All Rights Reserved.
Visual Design Consultant:
Alexander Isley Inc.
. Web Development Consultant:
Double R Designs
.
