Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=UTF-8'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'Montessori Community School is located in Durham, NC.'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Edlio CMS'}
{'name': 'referrer', 'content': 'always'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}

Body Text:
Montessori Community School
Skip to main content
Montessori Community School
Main Menu Toggle
About Us
Mission, Campus & Story
Montessori Approach
Diversity & Belonging
Meet Our Teachers & Staff
Board of Trustees
Work With Us
Calendar
Admissions
Welcome
Visit MCS
Application Dates & Info
Apply
Tuition & Fees
Financial Assistance
FAQs
Programs
Toddler
Primary
Lower Elementary
Upper Elementary
Adolescent
Arts & Enrichments
Extended Care
Summer Camp
Support MCS
Culture of Giving
Donate Now
Get Involved
FAQs
Community
FSO
Alumni
MCS Store
Family Portal
Staff Portal
Homepage Quicklinks
Inquire
Visit
Apply
Montessori Community School Home
MCS Campus
Pause
Play
About Us
Located on the border of Chapel Hill and Durham, MCS is an independent accredited Montessori school for students 18 months through eighth grade.
Learn More
Why MCS?
13-acre nature-rich campus filled with gardens, woods, and wetlands
Spacious multi-aged classrooms built for independent movement and learning
Welcoming and highly-trained faculty and staff
Open and supportive community rooted in diversity and belonging
Focus on developing the whole child and nurturing self-discovery
Programs
Toddler
Our Toddler Program is designed for children aged 18 months to 3 years. The classroom experience fosters the young child’s emerging independence and desire for exploration. The environments are designed to promote a toddler’s growth in all areas of development. We focus on creating a nurturing and secure environment where toddlers can build self-esteem and respect for themselves, others, and the world around them. The program offers various opportunities for toddlers to develop self-sufficiency and thrive in the classroom.
Learn More
Primary
Our Primary Program offers a unique, mixed-age classroom for children aged 3 to 6 that fosters independence, confidence, and innovation. Here, students engage in individual learning and one-on-one interactions, central to the Montessori Method. Using concrete materials, they learn math, language, spatial relationships, and more. Practical experiences include science, music, and sensorial skills.
Learn More
Lower Elementary
Lower Elementary classes encompass 1st through 3rd grade and foster students' innate curiosity, reasoning, and imagination. This program features a daily self-directed three-hour work cycle exploring subjects like math, language, botany, and geography. They engage in group projects, individual/group lessons, and receive formal instruction in art, Spanish, physical education, and music. Holistic education is the cornerstone of our elementary program.
Learn More
Upper Elementary
Upper Elementary classes serve students in 4th through 6th grade. Students learn to become discerning individuals through a process of self-awareness and self-advocacy. In accordance, the curriculum allows for an exploration of a range of topics with opportunities for depth of study. Upper Elementary students participate in art, Spanish, physical education, and music classes. They enjoy many enrichment opportunities including field trips, community service projects, and overnight trips. Students have the opportunity to pursue personal interests in weekly studios with the art and music specialists.
Learn More
Adolescent
Our Adolescent Program, designed for 7th and 8th graders, offers a unique blend of academic, physical, and social challenges. Education goes beyond the traditional classroom setting, delving into the realms of authentic community experiences and hands-on learning. Through collaborative, project-based work, students engage in meaningful discussions, debates, and interactions. This program offers young people the chance to engage the world in meaningful ways and realize the rewards.
Learn More
Diversity, Equity, & Belonging
Montessori Community School is dedicated to fostering equity and belonging through our peace education mission. Across programs, curriculum, and community endeavors, we emphasize the importance of diversity, recognizing and valuing unique perspectives which include race, socioeconomic status, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, religion, ability, family structure, learning style, and nationality.
Learn More
Photo Gallery: Step 1,2,3
Learn About Our Approach
Visit Us
Apply Now
Family Quotes Images
Quotes from MCS Families
Current Primary Parent
"Sending my child to your Montessori school was the best decision I've made as a parent. The love and care you provide, combined with the personalized and holistic approach to education, have truly transformed my child's love for learning."
Current MCS Parent
"I value the meeting of needs for each child, the independence, the collaboration among the kids, and the friendly environment"
Stay Connected
Skip Instagram widget
View this profile on Instagram
Montessori Community School
(@
mcsdurhamnc
) • Instagram photos and videos
Montessori Community School
4512 Pope Rd.
Durham, NC 27707
Phone:
(919) 493-8541
Fax: (919) 493-8165
[email protected]
Social Media Links
Facebook
Instagram
Footer Secondary Links
Non-Discrimination Statement
The Montessori Community School admits students of any race, color, national and ethnic origin to all the rights, privileges, programs, and activities generally accorded or made available to students at the school. It does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, national and ethnic origin in the administration of its educational policies, admissions policies, scholarship programs, and athletic and other school-administered programs.
Edlio
Login
Powered by Edlio
Mobile Footer Links
Inquire
Visit
Apply
