Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'index, follow, max-image-preview:large, max-snippet:-1, max-video-preview:-1'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'My Roots Foundation is a non-profit that focuses on the discovery, preservation and sharing of family history for all people to honor our heritage.'}
{'property': 'og:locale', 'content': 'en_US'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'My Roots Foundation'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'My Roots Foundation is a non-profit that promotes historical awareness. We help in the discovery and telling of your story. We also offer training to aid in the collection of family and community histories. Contact us to discover, preserve, and share your stories and gain knowledge and inspiration from your ancestors.'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://myrootsfoundation.com/'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'My Roots Foundation'}
{'property': 'article:publisher', 'content': 'https://www.facebook.com/myrootsfoundation/'}
{'property': 'article:modified_time', 'content': '2022-02-15T16:21:46+00:00'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'name': 'twitter:title', 'content': 'My Roots Foundation'}
{'name': 'twitter:description', 'content': 'My Roots Foundation is a non-profit that promotes historical awareness. We help in the discovery and telling of your story. We also offer training to aid in the collection of family and community histories. Contact us to discover, preserve, and share your stories and gain knowledge and inspiration from your ancestors.'}
{'name': 'twitter:image', 'content': 'https://myrootsfoundation.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/cropped-Header-logo-01.png'}
{'name': 'twitter:site', 'content': '@myrootsfound'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 6.5.3'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WooCommerce 8.1.1'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Powered by Slider Revolution 6.6.16 - responsive, Mobile-Friendly Slider Plugin for WordPress with comfortable drag and drop interface.'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://myrootsfoundation.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/05/cropped-Header-logo-01-270x270.png'}

Body Text:
My Roots Foundation - Family History, Heritage Charity
Menu
Search
Home
Who We Are
About Us
Why We Do it!
Blog
No products in the cart.
Search
Knowledge of 
Family History 
Leads to Inspiration
“I believe that the My Roots Foundation is one of the finest applications of our research on the importance of family stories that I have ever come upon.
Alonzo Felder has done what researchers cannot do and that is to take our findings directly to the people”
Dr. Marshall P. Duke
Charles Howard Candler Professor of Psychology
Creator of the “Do You Know” Scale
'Do You Know' Scale Click Here
What We Do!
My Roots Foundation
is a non-profit that promotes historical awareness.  We help in the discovery and telling of your story. We also offer training to aid in the collection of family and community histories.  Contact us to discover, preserve, and share your stories and gain knowledge and inspiration from your ancestors.
Why We Do It!
Knowing your past will help you navigate your future. Everyone has a story and that story should be shared so we can learn from the mistakes and successes of our forefathers. If we do not take ownership of passing on the stories from one generation to another they can be lost forever. We show honor to those who have done courageous and good things, but how can we honor those that we don't know what they've done?
How You Can Help!
Share your story and help others do the same! If you know of a group that needs inspiration, let us find and share the stories of their past. As a nonprofit,
My Roots Foundation
depends on the donations and support of our friends and communities. Please help us continue to bring awareness of the inspiration that comes from family history and genealogy. Join our community, spread the word and share your story. You are the best author of your story! We are here to help you discover, write, and preserve it!
Read Some of The Stories We Tell
Everyone has Hi
story
Worth Telling!
Contact us to help you share yours.
Below are some of
Our Stories
.
Should I use a DNA test kit?
DNA Test Kit
   So, you are thinking about using a DNA test kit to further your genealogical research.  Before you swab your cheek,  ...
How to Search a Cemetery, Respectfully
How To Search A Cemetery, Respectfully
When it comes to locating a relative or ancestor in a cemetery there are a few things I'll call "cem ...
How to Avoid Pitfalls In Family History Discovery and Sharing – Part Three
Avoid Pitfalls In Family History Discovery and Sharing
Part Three
In your family history detective work, you should strive to avoid pitfal ...
How to Avoid Pitfalls In Family History Discovery and Sharing - Part Two
Avoid Pitfalls In Family History Discovery and Sharing
Part Two
In your family history detective work, you should strive to avoid pitfalls ...
How to Avoid Pitfalls in Family History Discovery and Sharing
Avoid Pitfalls
In Family History Discovery and Sharing
In your family history detective work you cannot expect to be perfect, but you shou ...
How Castle, Benson, & Gibbs helped me discover my ancestors
The other night I’m once again frustrated with my ever increasing cable bill and decide to do a pros vs cons chart of why I should stop cabl ...
Our Mission
"Our mission is to honor our ancestors and promote awareness of the importance and impact of family history through Discovering, Preserving, and Sharing the stories of our forefathers. "
Testimonials
The Black History program was wonderful and very informative and we thank you for compiling the research and offering this presentation.  It makes me want to continue my ancestry search that I had begun a couple of years ago. 
The LAX office had a total of 15 attendees and the vast majority agreed with me in that the program was comprehensive and you (Claudine) and Mr. Felder are great storytellers. 
Thanks again.
Belinda E. Villalobos - Alston and Bird
The program was actually one of the absolute BEST that I’ve witnessed.  It was truly enlightening and very educational.  One of the partners who attended has actually done some family research himself and we (all three of us who attended) had a wonderful dialogue afterwards.  This has prompted me to start digging into my own family history.  The presentation did not only deal with Black History, but the presentations were also generalized for everyone in dealing with researching family history/backgrounds.  We never know what we may dig up
Tina Flowers - Alston and Bird
Please extend my appreciation to Alonzo Felder for this much needed foundation! If WE return to teaching our children OUR history, I believe that we will be on the way back to having communities that will once again boom with pride and the excellence that God placed in us!
Stacey Cooksey -
My Roots Foundation is focused on honoring our ancestors in all we do. Join our community to make a difference and help us record and preserve our histories.
Reaching Us!
You can reach us through various ways.
Contact us using the social media icons or you can reach us by postal mail at: 
311 Milton Road #73062, 
Durham, NC
Postal Code:
27712
My Roots Foundation
My Roots Foundation
Privacy Policy
About Us
Contact Us
