Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0, width=device-width'}
{'name': 'format-detection', 'content': 'telephone=no'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'author', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'format-detection', 'content': 'telephone=no'}
{'name': 'referrer', 'content': 'no-referrer-when-downgrade'}

Body Text:
NBNA.org
Corporate Roundtable Members
Home
About
Officers
Board of Directors
Staff
History
Who We Are
Membership
Membership Benefits
How to Start a Chapter
Chapter Directory
NBNA  Awards
Under 40 Award
Scholarship Program
Online Membership Application
Membership Application
Lifetime Membership Application
Programs
Friends of NBNA
Black Maternal Health Task Force
Global Health
Men's Health Awareness
NBNA Collaborative Mentorship Program
NBNA National Initiative on Violence Reduction
Obesity Now
NBNA and NIH All Of Us Research Initiative
Policy
National Black Nurses Day on Capitol Hill
Health Policy
Position Papers
Ads/Jobs
Career Center
Rates / How to Post
Mailing Guidelines
Publications
NBNA News
Press Releases
Journal of the NBNA
On-Line Store
Resources
NBNA Unmasked Podcasts
COVID Resources
NBNA Podcasts
NBNA  Affirmations
NBNA Links | Resolutions
NBNA Education Initiative
NBNA Photo Gallery
NBNA Webinars
Conference
CLICK HERE: Members & Non-Members
CLICK HERE: Exhibitors & Sponsors
CLICK HERE: Program Books
Awards and Accolades
Mentoring in the Moment
Population Health Committee
Sickle Cell Disease Working Group
Disease Prevention, Health Promotion and Clinical Trials/Research Working Group
NBNA YouTube
Mini Nurse Academy
Donate Today!
Login
Forgot Your Password
Membership
NBNA serves as the professional voice for over 200,000 African American registered nurses, licensed vocational/practical nurses, nursing students and retired nurses from the USA, Eastern Caribbean and Africa. Through our 115 chapters, we provide countless hours of community-based health care services.
Conference
The Conference is the best in state of the art continued education. Up to 17 CEs in 5 days are offered over the duration of the Annual Institute. Also offered: Career Fair for local job seekers; Exhibitor Hall showcasing schools of nursing, health systems and more; Scholarship Awards; Networking; and Fun.
HOTEL LINK PROVIDED UPON REGISTRATION
Career Center
Welcome to the NBNA Career Center! The Center designed to list professional careers in all nursing fields.
New postings are listed on a frequent basis and are available for the duration of one month and onward.
About NBNA
The National Black Nurses Association is fortunate to have great nursing leaders among its leadership in a variety of areas. The summary below is just an example of the signature programs and activities that draw African American nurses to NBNA. These programs help NBNA members grow stronger as they seek to provide culturally competent health care services in our communities.
The National Black Nurses Association (NBNA) was organized in 1971 under the leadership of Dr. Lauranne Sams, former Dean and Professor of Nursing, School of Nursing, Tuskegee University, Tuskegee, Alabama.
NBNA Newsletter
The NBNA eNewsletter is published quarterly and posted on our website. It is filled with information on the membership and articles written by NBNA members, NBNA partners and sponsors on a variety of nursing and health issues. Themes have included public policy, aging and research.
Read the latest Newsletter
Resources
Events
View All Events
FAQ
|
POLICIES
8630 Fenton Street, #910
Silver Spring, MD 20910
info@nbna.org
T - 301-589-3200 / F - 301-589-3223
Naylor Association Management Software
Copyright © 2024, National Black Nurses Association, INC
