Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'content-type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'index, follow'}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'title', 'content': 'Home'}
{'name': 'author', 'content': 'Ashlee Taylor'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'MemberClicks Content Management System'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}

Body Text:
Home
Home
About NCSPA
NCSPA Leadership
Regions
What Is a School Psychologist
Membership
Committees
Awards
Equity Committee
Executive Leadership
Fall Conference
Legislative & Public Policy
Professional Learning
Professional Practices
Public Relations
School Safety & Crisis Response
Advocacy
Events
Upcoming Events
Lunch, Learn, & Collaborate
2024 Fall Conference
Continuing Education
My Continuing Education Transcript
Jobs
Contact us
Member Login
Search
Join Now
All school districts in North Carolina will have school psychologists who receive the support needed to provide comprehensive school psychological services to support children and families.
NCSPA is a professional organization that supports and advocates for school psychologists across North Carolina to provide comprehensive services that reflect best practices in the field of school psychology.
We hope you find this site useful in better understanding NCSPA
and school psychologists in North Carolina.
Announcements & Information
Become a Member of NCSPA
Advocate for School Psychology
Calendar of Events & Meetings
Nominate a school psychologist for an NCSPA Award!
Learn more here!
Quick Links
NCSPA Advocacy Challenge
2024 Fall Conference
Online Learning Center
NCSPA Store
Upcoming Events
Mon May 20, 2024
Legislative and Public Policy (LPP) Committee Meeting
Category: Committee Meetings
Wed Jun 12, 2024
Executive Leadership Committee
Category: Committee Meetings
Wed Jun 12, 2024
Executive Board Meeting
Category: NCSPA Board Meetings
View Full Calendar
NCSPA Strives:
To promote the interests of school psychology as a science and as a profession.
To advance the professional interests of school psychologists.
To serve the educational and mental health needs of students and to assist in the development of sound educational practices for the total school program.
To promote and advance education and mental health through psychological research and dissemination of professional ideas.
To promote and maintain the highest standards of ethics, training, and professional practices in the provision of psychological services in the public and private schools in the State of North Carolina.
Thank you!
NCSPA Corporate Member
Advertise With Us
PSUs are invited to advertise available school psychologist positions with NCSPA. Responsibility for the content of posts rests with the specific PSU.
Submit employment or internship opportunities
here
!
Find a Job in North Carolina
Check out the current available openings in North Carolina!
View Openings
Home
Join now
Log in
North Carolina School Psychology Association
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Back to top
© Copyright 2024 NCSPA.  All rights reserved.
Privacy Policy
