Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Style-Type', 'content': 'text/css'}
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': ''}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'About the North Carolina Japanese Exchange Foundation, Inc. — Investing in US-Japan relations, one student at a time'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'About the North Carolina Japanese Exchange Foundation, Inc. — Investing in US-Japan relations, one student at a time'}
{'property': 'fb:app_id', 'content': ' '}

Body Text:
NCJEF is a nonprofit organization that focuses on international development, education, and exchange programs with Japan
North Carolina Japanese Exchange Foundation
Home
+
About Us
+
Initiatives
+
Students
+
Get Involved
+
Donate
About Us
The North Carolina Japanese Exchange Foundation is strengthening US-Japan relations through Japanese language learning and study abroad experiences. The Foundation is leading a statewide movement to ensure that the next generation of North Carolinians is equipped to engage effectively with Japan and the international community.
NCJEF engages US and Japanese government, business, and academic communities in our efforts to expand the number and diversity of North Carolinians studying abroad in Japan. We invest in strategic partnerships at the state and local level, and mobilize a robust group of student ambassadors to promote the Foundation’s mission at the grassroots level. NCJEF is recognized as an organization of excellence and enjoys the strong support of U.S. and Japanese private and public sector partners. NCJEF’s goal is to utilize citizen diplomacy exchanges and a shared passion for STEM-related fields (science, technology, engineering, and mathematics) to expand bilateral dialogue thereby deepening the connections between our two societies.
Launched in 2005, NCJEF is an independent 501(c)(3) non-profit organization housed in central North Carolina. NCJEF is a facilitator of international exchanges and works closely with high schools in the Research Triangle Park region of North Carolina and Nagoya University. The Foundation is funded through the generous donations of private sector organizations.
NCJEF is dedicated to the policy of non-discrimination on any basis including gender, race, ethnicity, veteran status, religious affiliation, sexual orientation, age, disability, or national origin.
Learn more about our initiatives »
Board of Advisors
Jonathan K. Ross
Executive Director
Dr. C. Kelly Batten
Robert Dockery
Yoshimi Yamagata Aoyagi
The North Carolina Japanese Exchange Foundation’s mission is to expand and diversify the number of Americans studying in Japan.
NCJEF is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization.
Contact:
info@ncjef.org
(919) 740-6655
3100 Tower Boulevard, Suite 1630
Durham, North Carolina 27707
Copyright © 2009 -
All rights reserved.
Website by
Virien.net
