Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'content': 'Divi Child v.1.0.0', 'name': 'generator'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 6.5.3'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Site Kit by Google 1.126.0'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://carolinasceba.com/wp-content/uploads/2024/03/cropped-CCEBA_Logo-icon-only-270x270.png'}

Body Text:
Carolinas Clean Energy Business Association | The Carolinas? Voice for the Clean Energy Industry
Follow
Follow
About Us
Who We Are
Staff
Board of Directors
Consultants
PAC Work
Where We Work
Membership
Current Membership
Becoming A Member
Blog
Focus Areas
Land Use Resources
Engagements
Portal Login
Carolinas Clean Energy Business Association
The Carolinas' Voice for the Clean Energy Industry
Who We Are
Where We Work
PHONE
(919) 590-4017
EMAIL
[email protected]
ADDRESS
811 Ninth Street, Suite 120-158
Durham, NC 27705
The
Carolinas Clean Energy Business Association (CCEBA)
is an association of independent power producers, suppliers, and customers committed to expanding private sector market access in the Carolinas’ vertically-integrated utility environment.
The Carolinas are clean energy leaders, but their energy market structure gives utilities, legislators, and regulators control over energy generation, transmission, and distribution. CCEBA is working to transform the energy landscape, empowering businesses and customers to shape a more accessible, competitive, and sustainable energy future.
Click here to review the Carolinas' major clean energy statutes.
CCEBA General Counsel John Burns Addresses Transmission Planning Improvements at the State Energy Conference
Energy demand is rapidly increasing, and the need for more resilient, reliable energy is placing pressure on an aging grid. This was a hot topic at this year’s North Carolina State Energy Conference, where CCEBA’s General Counsel John Burns spoke on the panel...
Read More
CCEBA Discusses Market Structures for the Energy Transition at State Energy Conference
CCEBA Executive Director Chris Carmody spoke April 23rd at the NC Clean Energy Technology Center State Energy Conference on the Market Structures for the Energy Transition panel along  with Kevin Martin of the Carolina Utility Customers Association, Inc., Nelson...
Read More
CCEBA Welcomes Three New Members
Carolinas Clean Energy Business Association is excited to welcome three new members: Powerhouse Recycling (doing business as Solar Panel Recycling), which host the first solar panel recycling facility on the East Coast;  John Laing, an international investor in...
Read More
CCEBA Attends National Association of Regulatory Commissioners
CCEBA General Counsel John Burns attended the 2024 National Association of Regulatory Commissioners (NARUC) on February 25-28, 2024 in Washington D.C. Here are some highlights of the meeting: CCEBA sponsored the Clean Energy Industries Reception the first night of the...
Read More
Fact vs. Fiction on Solar Land Use: Interview with Tom Terrell
The spread of misinformation about utility scale solar projects has been a growing challenge to the clean energy transition. Columbia University finished a study last year of clean energy pushback and found that disinformation is widespread. CCEBA sat down with Tom...
Read More
North Carolina Environmental Review Commission Discusses Solar Panel Recycling
The North Carolina General Assembly Environmental Review Commission (ERC) convened last week for the first time in six years. North Carolina State Representative Jimmy Dixon and State Senator Norman Sanderson called the meeting to discuss waste management and how the...
Read More
North Carolina Utilities Commission Shifts Carbon Plan Schedule, Requires Portfolio Meeting NC Law
In December 2023, Duke Energy notified the North Carolina Utilities Commission that it would be adding 2 GW of load to its recently submitted carbon plan revision. This was a dramatic addition and many stakeholders were concerned they would not have time to analyze...
Read More
A Look Back at CCEBA’s Work in 2023
2023 was a big year for clean energy in the Carolinas. The Carolinas Clean Energy Business Association (CCEBA) engaged with our members, government officials and communities on key energy market issues. We are excited to report our year’s highlights and where our work...
Read More
From RTO Insider: “After One Year, SEEM Still Drawing Criticism”
SEEM daily bids and offers for October | Potomac Economics Article originally written by Amanda Durish Cook and Holden Mann, published here by RTO Insider LLC. It’s been a year since the Southeast Energy Exchange Market (SEEM) began pairing offers and bids, with...
Read More
Director Chris Carmody Featured in Utility Dive: The Southeast Energy Exchange Market launched a year ago. It still isn’t delivering on its promises.
Our Executive Director Chris Carmody contributed to a discussion about the Southeast Energy Exchange Market (SEEM), in partnership with Nick Guidi of the Southern Environmental Law Center. Check out the article published in Utility Dive this week.
Read More
Copyright © 2024 Carolinas Clean Energy Business Association. All Rights Reserved.
Terms of Use | Privacy Policy
