Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'index, follow, max-image-preview:large, max-snippet:-1, max-video-preview:-1'}
{'property': 'og:locale', 'content': 'en_US'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Home - NCPCA (North Carolina Peace Corps Association)'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://ncpeacecorps.org/'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'NCPCA (North Carolina Peace Corps Association)'}
{'property': 'article:modified_time', 'content': '2024-05-05T16:14:39+00:00'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 6.5.3'}

Body Text:
Who We Are
Our Mission
Steering Committee
Activities & Events
Social Events
Happy Hours
International Dinners
NCPCA Book Group
Bonus Book Group
Annual Events
Fall Family Picnic
Annual Meeting and Holiday Party
Peace Prize
NCPCA Facebook Page
All Events
Get Involved
Become a Member
Join our Facebook Group
Donate to NCPCA
Related Links
Welcome to North Carolina Peace Corps Association!
2024 North Carolina Peace Prize Announcement
Arts Access North Carolina has been selected as this year’s recipient of the NCPCA Peace Prize!
Check out the story and details on the
NCPCA Peace Prize page
.
What We Do
The North Carolina Peace Corps Association (NCPCA) is dedicated to promoting the Third Goal of the Peace Corps, building group spirit and cooperation, promoting service, and serving as an example to others. This group of Returned Peace Corps Volunteers and friends aspires to these goals by promoting public awareness, education, and support for the Peace Corps. The North Carolina Peace Corps Association is an affiliate member of the National Peace Corps Association. The group has a Steering Committee that meets bi-monthly to handle the business of the organization, and you can see those members on the
Steering Committee Page
.
Connect
NCPCA provides you with a community of Returned Peace Corps Volunteers in North Carolina.
Get Involved
We have monthly and on-going volunteering opportunities.
Have Fun
Fall Family Cookout, Members Holiday Party, Book Club, and Monthly Happy Hours provide an opportunity for fun.
View All Events
Looking forward to another amazing year!
Stay up to date by visiting our
Activities and Events calendar
!
Become a Member
Join North Carolina Peace Corps Association to stay connected and support Peace Corps community initiatives!
Join Today
Stay in Touch
Sign up to receive email communications about the latest news and events happening around the Peace Corps community!
Subscribe
Donate Today
Your generosity supports Peace Corps community projects!
Donate
Looking for Peace Corps logo merchandise?
Visit the National Peace Corps Association’s online store!
We are an affiliate of the
National Peace Corps Association (NPCA)
.
NPCA is the nonprofit alumni network at the center of a vibrant community of over 220,000 people who share the Peace Corps experience. NPCA champions lifelong commitment to Peace Corps ideals by connecting, engaging and promoting its members and affiliate groups as they continue to make a difference in communities in the U.S. and abroad. NPCA is also dedicated to advocating for, contributing to, and supporting the betterment of the Peace Corps.
Visit NPCA to learn more
.
Contact Us
PO Box 13238
Research Triangle Park NC 27709
United States of America
[email protected]
Latest Posts
Arts Access Awarded 2024 Peace Prize
Upcoming Events
Durham Happy Hour
Book Club Meeting
Send Off for Susan Sunay
Raleigh Happy Hour at Tobacco Road Cafe
Nonprofit Support & Hosting Provided by FatLab
© 2024 NCPCA (North Carolina Peace Corps Association)
Skip to content
Open toolbar
Accessibility Tools
Accessibility Tools
Increase Text
Increase Text
Decrease Text
Decrease Text
Grayscale
Grayscale
High Contrast
High Contrast
Negative Contrast
Negative Contrast
Light Background
Light Background
Links Underline
Links Underline
Readable Font
Readable Font
Reset
Reset
