Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'Homepage of the North Carolina Continuing Care Residents Assocation.'}

Body Text:
North Carolina Continuing Care Residents Association
Home
News & Events ▾
Legislative Concerns
NorCCRA Growth
Recent Activity
Upcoming Meetings
State Officers
Publications ▾
Hotline Newsletter
Brochures & Flyers
Resources ▾
Bylaws
Standing Rules
NorCCRA Forums
CCRC's with Resident Members
North Carolina CCRC General Statutes
External Links Related to Senior Living
Documents
Contact Us
☰
What is NorCCRA?
The North Carolina Continuing Care Residents Association (NorCCRA) is a state-wide volunteer non-profit organization of residents living in continuing care retirement and life plan communities.
The Mission of NorCCRA
North Carolina Continuing Care Residents Association (NorCCRA) communicates with residents of Continuing Care Retirement Communities (CCRC) and Life Plan Communities (LPC) at the Regional, State and National levels to exemplify excellence in preserving, promoting and ensuring optimal quality of life throughout the continuum of care for the diverse population of North Carolina Continuing Care Retirement Community Residents.
The Vision of NorCCRA
North Carolina Continuing Care Residents Association (NorCCRA) aims to use best practices and evidence-based models of excellence in accessing, evaluating, and sharing education and information as it promotes responsible stewardship of resources for current and future North Carolina Continuing Care Retirement Community residents.
The Purpose of NorCCRA
North Carolina Continuing Care Residents Association (NorCCRA) is an advocate for strong laws, regulations and general practices for the protection and well-being of Continuing Care Retirement Community residents.
How and Why Did NorCCRA Begin?
Continuing care retirement communities are relatively new. They began appearing in the
                    late 1960s and early 1970s. The decades of the 1980s and 1990s saw major growth.  The name is now being replaced by "life plan communities" to better reflect coming generations.
Dr. Harry Groves, a retired professor of law and law school dean, reviewed existing North Carolina legislation relating to CCRCs. He concluded that existing laws were inadequate to give residents the protection they needed. In 1988, he called together a small group of NorCCRA residents and members of the North Carolina legislature to seek their assistance in providing better laws. NorCCRA was organized and Dr. Groves proposed new legislation. The following year, this small group of people successfully lobbied the legislature to gain passage of what is now
N.C. General Statutes, Chapter 58, Article 64
, to license and regulate CCRCs in the state. To administer the law's provisions, the law mandates that:
A license be secured from the Department of Insurance (DOI) to operate a CCRC.
A detailed
                        disclosure statement be given to both prospective residents   and annually to residents.
Specified financial reserves be maintained.
A developer show that contractual obligations can be met on a   continuing basis.
An owning entity may not sell or transfer ownership without prior   approval from the DOI.
Residents have the right to organize and be kept informed on the   operation of the facility.
The Department of Insurance is charged with protecting the rights of residents through financial audits. The department also has the right to intervene in the event of financial difficulty to protect the rights of residents.
Click here for the latest NorCCRA news!
If you have questions about the organization, please go to the
Contact Us
page and fill in the contact form. NorCCRA will get back in touch with you!
Read
The Hotline
Newsletter
Find the latest edition of the NorCCRA newsletter
here
.
How to read PDF files:
The Hotline
and other documents referenced here are published in PDF format and you will need a reader such as Adobe Acrobat Reader installed to view them. You may click on the following link to download a
free
copy of the software:
All content Copyright 2015-2021, NorCCRA. All rights reserved. If there is a problem with the site, please contact the
webmaster
.
