Meta Information:
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width'}
{'name': 'Keywords', 'content': 'treasury, greensboro, raleigh, charlotte, burlington, north carolina, winston-salem, networking, ctp credits, ctp, fp&a credits, fp&a, professionals, social events, innovation, cash management, banking, capital markets, fx hedging, investments, economy,  certified treasury professional, finance,  continuing education'}
{'name': 'apple-itunes-app', 'content': 'app-id=1220348450, app-argument='}

Body Text:
NCTMA - The Association
info@nctma.org
info@nctma.org
NORTH
CAROLINA
The Association
President's Letter
Professional Development
Job Listings
Leadership
Board of Directors
Member Organizations
Meetings
Meeting Registration
2023-2024 Meetings
Cash Adventure Conference
Member Application
Assn Information
Bylaws
Past Presidents
Scholarship Program
Sponsorships
Website Help
Links
Privacy Policy
*
Email
*
Password
Remember me
Forgot password
About The Association
The North Carolina Treasury Management Association is a non-profit organization for treasury professionals. Established in 1979, and initially known as the North Carolina Cash Management Association, the NCTMA is a regional affiliate of the
Association for Financial Professionals
(AFP). The association provides an opportunity for its members to meet regularly to exchange ideas and information in an interactive forum featuring national, regional and local speakers on relevant topics. All educational activities are structured to provide relevant information for a person entering the field as well as the more experienced Treasury professional.
About The Members
The NCTMA membership is open to individuals employed by businesses, partnerships, banks, financial institutions, financial service vendors, governmental units, and educational institutions located within or having treasury/cash management related operations or services in North Carolina.
Membership consists of Treasury and Cash Management professionals including: Treasurers, Assistant Treasurers, Cash Managers, Controllers, Chief Financial Officers, Treasury & Financial Analysts and Finance Managers.
Address:
NCTMA
8311 Brier Creek Pkwy, Suite 105-158
Raleigh, NC  27617
Membership Applications and Renewals -
Applications for membership is currently open.
If you are registering as a new member, please select "
Member Application
" on the navigation bar on the left side of the page.
If you are renewing a membership, please log into the site and click on "View Profile" below your name in the upper right corner of the screen.  When you are viewing your profile, click the button that says, "Renew until 1 July 2022." You can pay online or print an invoice if paying by check.
UPCOMING MEETINGS:
NCTMA Webinar, Best Practices in Cybersecurity, April 4, 2024
You can register for our events on the Meetings page. You can register for virtual meetings up to an hour before the start time.
In- Person MEETING REGISTRATION -
Registration for each meeting is
generally CLOSED five days before the event
,
in order to give the facility a head count. For some events the registration is closed earlier, once maximum capacity is reached. Please register early.
If you have any questions, please e-mail:
info@nctma.org
.
© 2022 North Carolina Treasury Management Association
Powered by
Wild Apricot
Membership Software
