Meta Information:
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'name': 'Keywords', 'content': 'cleaner,cleaning,DLI,Drycleaning and Laundry Institute,dry-cleaner,drycleaner,fabric,fabricare,garment, garment care,launderer,laundry,NCALC,North Carolina Association of Launderers and Cleaners,professional,rug,textile,wet-cleaning,wetcleaning,wash dry fold, wash fluff fold'}
{'name': 'Description', 'content': 'North Carolina Association of Launderers and Cleaners'}
{'name': 'apple-itunes-app', 'content': 'app-id=1220348450, app-argument='}

Body Text:
NCALC - Home
North Carolina Association of Launderers and Cleaners
Log in
Home
Events
Join Us
Find a Cleaner
Services for Cleaners
Donate
Contact
For Our Industry Allies
Members-Only
The Source of Official Information for NCALC
Welcome to the North Carolina Association of Launderers and Cleaners (NCALC)!
Started in 1907, we are one of the very few single state trade associations representing and supporting our statewide  industry.
This is a source of pride for us and we will tell you why.
What it means is that due to the long standing commitment and passion of our members, leadership and sponsors, we have been able to consistently provide meaningful support and value to our industry for over 100 years.
Membership comes with a host of benefits:
Joint membership for cleaners in NCALC and the Drycleaning and Laundry Institute (DLI)
Exposure to a wide variety of educational outreach to improve your business
Multiple occasions throughout the year to join in professional networking and fellowship with other cleaners
from around the State
and with suppliers to our industry
Legislative support and updates
If you are already a member, thank you very much for your support!
If you are not a member yet, we welcome you to learn about us throughout our web site and
urge you to consider the many benefits of membership
.
Click here for more info about membership
.
Upcoming events
NCALC 2024 Annual Convention
24 May 2024
•
DoubleTree by Hilton Atlantic Beach Oceanfront Hotel, 2717 West Fort Macon Rd, Atlantic Beach, NC 28512
NCALC 2024 Fall Meeting
13 Sep 2024
•
To Be Determined
JOIN NCALC
&
DLI NOW!
Join Us
Featured Business Partners
Platinum Level
Gold Level
Silver Level
Bronze Level
Click HERE to see other NCALC Business Partners
.
Click HERE for information on becoming a NCALC Business Partner.
Education
Upcoming
Event
Calendar
NCALC Leadership
Carolina Clean Newsletter
Spring 2024 Issue
North Carolina Association of Launderers and Cleaners
(NCALC)
4819 Emperor Blvd Ste 400, Durham, NC 27703-5420 ● 919-313-4542 ● info@ncalc.org
Powered by
Wild Apricot
Membership Software
