Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'TYPO3 CMS'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'PAWS Chicago is a national model in animal sheltering, committed to bringing an end to the killing of homeless cats and dogs.'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'facebook-domain-verification', 'content': '18ygywt9kjblpwuwmd1tlstj2c1y34'}

Body Text:
Home Page | PAWS Chicago
Home Page | PAWS Chicago
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Sign up
Shop
Home
Our Work
How To Help
Events & Dog Training
News & Resources
No Kill Mission
About Us
Pet Adoption
Pets Available
Adopt a Cat
Adopt a Dog
Adoption Process
Why Adopt
Adoption Centers
Adoption Events
A Pet's Journey Through PAWS
Ongoing Training & Support
Recently Adopted Pets
PAWS Alumni
Spay/Neuter
Lifesaving Impact
Benefits of Spay/Neuter
Lurie Clinic
Feral Cats (TNR)
Importance of Early Spay/Neuter
Community Engagement
PAWS for Life Outreach
Mobile Vet Clinic
360 at CACC
Community Cats
PAWS Chicago Magazine
Crisis Support
Giving Up Your Pet
Crisis Foster Care
Disaster Response
Medical Center
Volunteer
Become a Volunteer
Volunteer Opportunities
Junior Volunteers
Volunteers of the Month
Volunteers of the Year
Donate
Your Giving Saves Lives
Lifeline Monthly Giving Program
Tributes and Memorials
Corporate Giving
Guardian Angel
Create Your Own (CYO) Fundraiser Program
Foster
Become a Foster
Resources for Fosters
Pets Available for Fostering
Fundraising Events
5K Walk/Run
Animal Magnetism
Beach Party
Golf
TEAM PAWS Chicago
Fur Ball
Community Events
Junior Rescuers Youth Tours
Dog Training Classes
Meet the Trainers
Training Center  FAQs
News & Features
PAWS Chicago News
Animal Welfare
For Your Pet
PAWS Chicago Magazine
For People Who Love Pets
All About Dogs
Doggy Basics
Getting Started - A Guide for Bringing Home a New Dog
Preparing Your Dog for a Change in the Family
Understanding Dog Behavior
Medical Care for Your Dog
Providing for Your Dog Should Something Happen To You
How Dogs Age
Protocols
Return to Routine
All About Cats
Kitty Basics
Getting Started - A Guide for Bringing Home a New Cat
Preparing Your Cat for a Change in the Family
Understanding Cat Behavior
Medical Care for Your Cat
Providing for Your Cat Should Something Happen To You
Cat Resources
Two is Better than One
Resources
Chicago Area Animal Shelters
Vet Care Partners
Finding Your Lost Pet
Helping a Stray or Lost Animal
Coping with Pet Loss
Hazardous Items for Pets
About No Kill
History of Sheltering
The No Kill Revolution
Defining No Kill
No Kill Gold Standard
The No Kill Model
The Foundation - Community Engagement
The Four Pillars
A Model No Kill Community
Building a No Kill Chicago
Community Results to Date
Animal Care & Control Results
PAWS Chicago's Progression
No Kill Policy Recommendations
The Story
Our History
Timelines & Milestones
Mission & Values
Watch Our Story
Results
Adoption Program
Spay/Neuter Data
Community Engagement
Financial Health and Sustainability
Leadership
Board of Directors
Development Board
Professional Board
Media Center
PAWS in the Media
Media Archive
Video Archive
Close Menu
Menu
DONATE
ADOPT
106,221
Volunteer Hours in 2023
4,561
Adoptions in 2023
98.62%
Save rate at PAWS
16,587
Surgeries in 2023
It’s time to raise the woof!
You're invited to Beach Party! Join 500 luau guests and their pets on Thursday, July 25 for an evening of drinks, dinner, dancing, auctions, raffles, and so much more. All to help save the lives of homeless pets. Purchase tickets now before we sell out.
Avant for Men Adoption Event
Shop for belts and loyal pets! Stop by Avant for Men in Highland Park on Saturday, May 18, noon–4 p.m. for an adoption event that brings menswear and man’s best friends together.
Chicago Cubs Adoption Event
If baseball is America’s favorite pastime, dogs have got to be a close second. Put the two together, and what do you get? One heck of a day. Gear up before the Cubs vs. Atlanta Braves game on Wednesday, May 22, 11:30 a.m.–2 p.m. with adoptable dogs from PAWS Chicago. Set at Gallagher Way, a pet-friendly green space in Wrigley Field’s backyard, you won’t want to miss this chance to toss a ball and tussle some ears before the first pitch.
You're Invited to the Pup Premiere!
Lights, camera, adopt! We’re rolling out the red carpet for foster pups at the Pippen Fasseas Adoption Center, and you’re invited! At the Pup Premiere, you meet multiple dogs from foster homes in a single, star-studded evening. Click to make an appointment and come ready to adopt on Saturday, May 25. See you on the red carpet!
North Shore New Friend Adoption Event
Calling all animal lovers in the northern suburbs! This is your chance to adopt from PAWS Chicago without making a trip to the city. Join us at the Glenn L. Felner North Shore Adoption Center in Highland Park on Saturday, May 25, noon - 3 p.m. to meet adoptable dogs, cats, puppies, and kittens. No appointments are needed, so just stop by whenever it’s convenient for the whole family.
Angels with Tails Gold Coast
We’ve discovered the ultimate Sunday afternoon: Luxury shopping, fun, and saving lives! Please join us on Sunday, June 2, for Angels with Tails. We've teamed up with your favorite shops to bring adoptable cats and dogs to the premier Gold Coast neighborhood. No appointments are needed and the whole family is invited!
Apply to be a Fall Intern
Gain valuable experience in animal welfare and non-profit work with Chicago’s largest No Kill organization. A national leader in the No Kill movement, PAWS Chicago offers a variety of internships for college students seeking career experience and training by industry professionals. Applications are due on June 15. Click to apply.
5K Walk/Run for Their Lives
The PAWS 5K raises critical funds and awareness for homeless pets. Plus, it’s a whole lot of fun! There are sponsor giveaways, a dog agility course, a doggy oasis with pools and dog spa services, a photo station and other fun photo ops, raffles, treats, and you'll meet tons of other pet lovers. Register now for the lowest prices of the year!
Chicago Reader’s Best of Chicago 2023
PAWS Chicago wins “Best Pet Adoption or Animal Shelter” and “Best Place To Work” in Chicago Reader’s Best of Chicago 2023 poll!
Junior Rescuers Youth Tours
Join us at 10:30 a.m. on the second Saturday of every month for a tour of the Pippen Fasseas Adoption Center. This is the perfect opportunity for Scout troops, school groups, families, and kids to get a first-hand look at what it means to give homeless pets a second chance. Click to register!
Virtual + In-Person Training
Train your pup from the comfort of your home or at our Lincoln Park Adoption Center. Small class sizes ensure an environment conducive to learning. Sign up now!
Donate Supplies On Our Wishlist
Help us stretch our dollars by donating supplies. New and most gently used items are greatly appreciated. We do have limited storage space, so we have put together a list of the items we need the most.
Be Part of the Solution
Join PAWS Chicago in its work to help homeless pets. There are endless ways for you to give back. Find one that's right for you and get involved today.
Adopt
Donate
Volunteer
Foster
PAWS CHICAGO ADOPTION HISTORY
Total Number of Adoptions Through 2023: 82,234
From
168
Animals Adopted from PAWS
1997
To
4,561
Animals Adopted from PAWS
2023
Learn more
WHY ARE THEY DYING?
Too Many Born, Too Few Adopted
One Female Cat
and her offspring can produce more than
420,000
kittens
over a seven year span!
Learn More
One Female Dog
and her offspring can produce over
96,000
puppies
in seven years!
Learn More
FAMILIES NEEDED
With so many pets born, too many are coming into shelters and too few are adopted. Become a foster parent and offer a homeless pet refuge until they find their adoptive family.
Meet Homeless Pets
The No Kill Model - Solutions to End the Killing
The No Kill Model
Dig deeper into the Pillars of No Kill - Targeted Spay/Neuter, Adoptions, Animal Health & Well-Being, and Volunteers - and the foundation of Community Engagement in our No Kill section.
See the Model
Targeted Spay/Neuter
Targeted spay/neuter programs serving at-risk and under-resourced communities dramatically reduces the number of unwanted animals born and ultimately killed in shelters.
Learn More
Proactive & Innovative Adoption
Saving more lives is about extending the visibility of homeless animals into communities where people live, work and play, encouraging people to think adoption first, and maybe fall in love.
Dig Deeper
Animal Health & Behavior
The goal is for each pet to not only survive but thrive! Through state-of-the-art Shelter Medicine and comprehensive Animal Behavior programs, we treat and rehabilitate both body and spirit.
Learn More
Volunteers
Volunteers are the life-force of PAWS Chicago, touching every aspect of operations and providing the highest quality of care for our pets. Join our army and help us save more lives!
Volunteer Opportunities
Community Engagement
The foundation of everything we do - since our first adoption event in 1998 - is engaging the community in the cause of homeless pets. People cause the problem. People solve the problem!
Be Part of the Solution
The Founding
It's a story that inspires. This video tells the story of why PAWS was founded and how a grassroots effort revolutionized animal welfare in Chicago.
Watch
MEDICAL CENTER
Once safe at PAWS Chicago, every pet is treated as an individual and guaranteed life, no matter where they come from and what they need.
Learn More
Contact Us
Careers
Sitemap
Privacy Policy
Adopt a Pet
Pippen Fasseas Adoption Center
1997 N. Clybourn Ave
Chicago,
                    
                    
                        IL
                    
                    
                        60614
                    
                    
                        -
Map it
773-935-7297
(PAWS)
Monday - Friday: Noon–7 p.m.
Saturday - Sunday: 11.a.m.–5 p.m.
SCHEDULE AN ADOPTION APPOINTMENT:
Learn about our in-person adoption process at pawschicago.org/adopt
Medical Center & Lurie Clinic
3516 W. 26th Street
Chicago,
                    
                    
                        IL
                    
                    
                        60623
                    
                    
                        -
Map it
773-521-7729 (SPAY)
Email clinic@pawschicago.org to make an appointment today.
Blazer Building Training Center
1933 N. Marcey Street
Chicago,
                    
                    
                        IL
                    
                    
                        60614
                    
                    
                        -
Map it
Please visit PawsChicago.org/training for the most up-to-date information on our virtual and in-person training classes.
Englewood Outreach Program
Offers programs and resources for neighborhood pet owners.
Pet owners in Englewood and Back of the Yards may call 773-217-9113 for more information.
Copyright 2024
Follow us:
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
