Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'content-type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'index, follow'}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'title', 'content': 'Home'}
{'name': 'author', 'content': 'Teressa Reavis'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'MemberClicks Content Management System'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}

Body Text:
Home
Home
Member Home
About
About NCAP
Board of Directors
Contact Us
Academies, Forums, & Committees
Advertising Exhibits & Sponsors
Awards
NCAP Executive Fellowship
NC Community Pharmacy Alert Network (NC CAN)
Membership
Membership Benefits
Membership Pricing
How to Get Involved
Donate to NCAP  Endowment Fund
Resources
Toolkits
Clinical Services Toolkit
COVID-19 Testing Toolkit
Diabetes Prevention Toolkit
Harm Reduction Toolkit
Hormonal Contraception Toolkit
Immunization Toolkit
Long Acting Injectables (LAI) Toolkit
Post-Exposure Prophylaxis Toolkit
NCAP Resources
Medicaid Enrollment and Billing
NC MPJE Preparation
Pharmacy Technician Certification
NC Physicians Health Program (NCPHP)
Opioid Brief Videos for Pharmacists
Professional Development
Request Forms for CPE Credit
Certificate Programs
Opioid Stewardship Training for Student Pharmacists
Caring for Patients with OUD: Optimizing Interprofessional Care (Meets DEA MATE Act 8-Hour Training Requirements)
NCAP on Demand
Live Webinars
SL 2021-110 Toolkits, Training, and Resources
Long-Acting Injectables Training Registration
Hormonal Contraception Training Registration
Post-Exposure Prophylaxis Training Registration
Glucagon Resource Page
Prenatal Vitamins Resource Page
Nicotine Replacement Therapy Resource Page
APPE Elective Rotations
ACPE vs NC CE
Fellow Practitioner Recognition Program
Events
Events Calendar
2024 Annual Convention
2024 NCAP Residency Conference
2024 Pharmacy Legislative Day
2024 Live Webinars
News
North Carolina Pharmacist
eNCAPsulated News Highlights
Latest News
News Archive
Advocacy
Government Affairs
Donate to NCAP Advocacy Fund
Student Advocacy Training
Career Center
Member Login
Search
Join/Renew Now
Upcoming Events, Webinars, and More!
Together We Are Stronger
The Value of Membership
When you join the Association, your membership dues are put to work immediately supporting our noble profession. NCAP is the essential and sole organization representing and fostering the advancement of pharmacy in North Carolina. Your membership helps to build awareness, create value, and generate a voice for pharmacists, pharmacy technicians and student pharmacists. While you are taking care of your patients and practices, the Association’s role is to take care of you, by protecting and advancing our profession. Every dollar of your membership dues goes to support: the development of resources and educational programming; the work of our Board, practice academies, forums, and special interest groups; our advocacy agenda; practice advancement initiatives; committees and general operations.
Click Here to Join Now!
Communications Media
Our Association produces a weekly electronic newsletter (eNCAPsulated). Our journal, North Carolina Pharmacist, is published quarterly. We use online communities to message our members and special interest groups, and we have a presence on popular social media outlets.
Access Our Journal
Access Our E-News
Featured Resources
Each year the Association works to produce new or improved resources to help our members.  We have a number of certificate-level, online educational programs and we also have several helpful toolkits including our newest hormonal contraception toolkit.
Access Certificate Programs
Access Resources
Announcements
UPDATE: As of March 1st, 2024 all Member types must renew through the Membership Form, access this form by clicking '
Join/Renew Now
' in the top-left
Upcoming Events
Fri May 17, 2024
NCAP Monthly Huddle for Health-System and Hospital Leaders
Category: Events
Sun May 19, 2024
Stamping Out STIs: Clinical Updates in the Management of Sexually Transmitted Diseases
Category: Events
Wed May 29, 2024
NCAP's 2024 Legislative Day
Category: Events
Mon Jun 24, 2024
NCAP's Annual Convention
Category: Events
View Full Calendar
Pharmacists as Advocates
Jump on board with NCAP as we work to implement
legislative
and regulatory change to improve the profession.  The 2024 legislative session will be another very active engagement year.  The NCAP Board of Directors has approved a robust--pharmacy proud--
pharmacy strong--advocacy agenda. Click the link below to see our priority issues for this session.
For More Information
Home
Privacy Policy
Copyright and Terms of Use
Antitrust Policy
Join now
Log in
North Carolina Association of Pharmacists
Brighton Hall
1101 Slater Road, Suite 110
Durham, NC 27703
Phone: (984) 439-1646 Fax: (984) 439-1649
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Instagram
Back to top
