Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'index, follow, max-image-preview:large, max-snippet:-1, max-video-preview:-1'}
{'property': 'og:locale', 'content': 'en_US'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'article'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Catholic Charities Opens Higher Ground Saint Paul - Catholic Charities of St. Paul and Minneapolis'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE Catholic Charities Opens Higher Ground Saint Paul First phase of the new vision for the Dorothy Day Center marks historic public-private partnership to prevent and end homelessness Contact: Therese Gales, Media Relations Manager therese.gales@cctwincities.org; 612-221-5161 Onsite contact: Sara Thatcher sara@goffpublic.com; 952-221-5368 Online Press Kit with additional information as well as downloadable images... (Read More)'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://cctwincities.org/our-organization/news/press-releases/catholic-charities-opens-higher-ground-saint-paul/'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Catholic Charities of St. Paul and Minneapolis'}
{'property': 'article:publisher', 'content': 'https://www.facebook.com/CatholicCharitiesTwinCities'}
{'property': 'article:modified_time', 'content': '2022-07-19T14:58:56+00:00'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://cctwincities.org/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/apple-touch-icon-180x180.png'}
{'property': 'og:image:width', 'content': '180'}
{'property': 'og:image:height', 'content': '180'}
{'property': 'og:image:type', 'content': 'image/png'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'name': 'twitter:site', 'content': '@cctwincitiesorg'}
{'name': 'twitter:label1', 'content': 'Est. reading time'}
{'name': 'twitter:data1', 'content': '6 minutes'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 6.5.3'}
{'name': 'facebook-domain-verification', 'content': 'ig1dortqio5hu57tjklx776twdwfk7'}
{'name': 'msvalidate.01', 'content': '25AFD82BBCF2354070FF15048B91D9AA'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileColor', 'content': '#005daa'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': '/wp-content/uploads/2016/06/mstile-144x144.png'}
{'name': 'msapplication-config', 'content': 'browserconfig.xml'}
{'name': 'theme-color', 'content': '#ffffff'}
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Security-Policy', 'content': "default-src 'self'; img-src https://*; child-src 'none';"}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://cctwincities.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/04/cropped-favicon-512x512-1-270x270.png'}

Body Text:
Catholic Charities Opens Higher Ground Saint Paul - Catholic Charities of St. Paul and Minneapolis
Toggle navigation
MENU
SEARCH
DONATE
DONATE
                NOW
PLANNED 
                GIVING
GIFTS OF STOCK AND MUTUAL FUNDS
CORPORATE AND FOUNDATION GIVING
TRIBUTE AND MEMORIAL GIFTS
MATCHING GIFTS
WISH LIST FOR PEOPLE IN NEED
DONOR ADVISED FUND GIVING
DONOR PRIVACY POLICY
FUNDRAISING DISCLOSURE STATEMENTS
IRA CHARITABLE ROLLOVER
VOLUNTEER
SIGN UP
GENERAL INFORMATION AND FAQs
ADVOCATE
TAKE ACTION NOW
LEGISLATIVE AGENDA
SOCIAL JUSTICE RESOURCES
FIND HELP
WHAT WE DO
EDUCATION + ADVOCACY
OUR ORGANIZATION
SEARCH
Catholic Charities Opens Higher Ground Saint Paul
A new life for St. Joe’s campus
About illness
Advocate
All Services
Best Buy Volunteers turn out for kids
Catholic Charities Announces Fundraising Milestone for Dorothy Day Center
Catholic Charities Announces New Board of Directors
Catholic Charities Announces New Director of Advocacy
Catholic Charities Announces New Sr. Director of Advocacy &  Govt. Affairs
Catholic Charities at Elliot Park
Catholic Charities Distribution Center
Children’s Day Treatment
Counting blessings, not problems
Donate
Education + Advocacy
Evergreen Residence
Family Service Center
Giving Basket
Glenwood Residence
Glenwood Residence Forms
Hennepin Shelter Hotline
Higher Ground Minneapolis
Higher Ground St. Paul
Homepage
Hope Street
Keep Neighbors Warm
Life takes positive turn for client, staff
Love, community brought Melvin home
Mary F. Frey Opportunity Center Calendar
Medical Respite helped Charles recover
NCDC Video
Northside Child Development Center
Opportunities for Parishes and Faith Communities
Our Organization
Blog
Financials
Our People
Careers
Contact Us
Events
News
Sign up for our email newsletter
Voice Newsletter
Press Releases
Dorothy Day Place Press Kit
Endeavors Press Kit
Giving Tree Press Kit
Hope Street Opening Press Kit
Warming House Press Kit
Catholic Charities adopts Greater MSP Regional Indicators
Catholic Charities Opens Higher Ground Saint Paul
Catholic Charities Reaches Private Fundraising Goal
Margaret King Named Senior Director Of Single Adult Housing Division
Emergency Shelter and Central Intake to close at St. Joseph’s Home for Children
Catholic Charities Launches Search  for Next President and CEO
please contribute today
please donate today
Please Give Today
Privacy Policy
Response to Executive Order on Refugees
Response to U.S Supreme Court Ruling on Revised Travel Ban
Saint Paul Opportunity Center
Saint Paul Opportunity Center and Dorothy Day Residence
Search
Site Map
St. Anthony Residence
St. Christopher Place
St. Joseph’s Home for Children
St. Paul Opportunity Center – Dorothy Day Residence
St. Paul Residence
Stand
Statement from Catholic Charities Regarding End of 2016 Legislative Session
Statement Regarding Passage of State Bonding Bill
Statement Regarding Theft of Public Rental Assistance Funds
Statement Regarding World Refugee Day
Support
The Mary F. Frey Minneapolis Opportunity Center
U.S. Bank Supports New Vision for Dorothy Day Center
Volunteer
What We Do
Woodland Hills Church
2023 Social Justice Assembly
Give to the Max
Catholic Charities Twin Cities
1007 East 14th Street
Minneapolis, MN 55404
Contact:
(61s) 221-5161
therese.gales@cctwincities.org
Home
»
Our Organization
»
News
»
Press Releases
»
Catholic Charities Opens Higher Ground Saint Paul
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Catholic Charities Opens Higher Ground Saint Paul
First phase of the new vision for the Dorothy Day Center
marks historic public-private partnership to prevent and end homelessness
Contact: Therese Gales, Media Relations Manager
therese.gales@cctwincities.org
; 612-221-5161
Onsite contact: Sara Thatcher
sara@goffpublic.com
; 952-221-5368
Online Press Kit with additional information as well as downloadable images / renderings of Higher Ground Saint Paul and the Dorothy Day Center:
https://dorothydaycampaign.org/press-kit/
Saint Paul, Minn. (January 12, 2017)—Today, Catholic Charities of Saint Paul and Minneapolis marked the opening of Higher Ground Saint Paul, the first phase of the Dorothy Day Place project which includes a larger, more dignified emergency shelter and permanent housing units. The two-phase transformational project to prevent and end homelessness– the largest public-private partnership in state history in housing and social services–secured broad support and funding from both public and private sources.
“For 36 years, the Dorothy Day Center has been a place of hope and refuge for those in need, but today as we open Higher Ground Saint Paul, we are marking a historic turning point,” said Tim Marx, president and CEO of Catholic Charities of St. Paul and Minneapolis. “We are transforming how we work with people experiencing homelessness. We are grateful to our public and private sector leaders, and our many donors and partners for their support of our vision to provide our most vulnerable neighbors with pathways out of poverty.”
This comprehensive approach to end homelessness replaces the Dorothy Day Center, which opened in 1981 as a temporary fix for what was thought to be a temporary problem. Thirty-six years later, the number of people needing shelter and services in Saint Paul continues to climb – and the Dorothy Day Center is unable to serve people with the dignity they deserve.
Higher Ground Saint Paul offers 473 people experiencing homelessness a dignified place to sleep each night and a pathway out of poverty. Located across the street from the current Dorothy Day Center, the five-story building includes emergency shelter for 280 women and men and a range of permanent housing options for 193 people—including many long-term homeless individuals and veterans. The building will also offer medical respite beds for men and women who are experiencing homelessness and are recovering from hospitalization; specialized housing and assistance for women suffering from late-stage alcoholism; and Pay-for-Stay beds that have a minimal fee, which is held in savings for clients and can be used for a first month’s rent or down payment for permanent housing.
Catholic Charities is leveraging significant public-private investments and partnerships in order to fully realize the new vision for the Dorothy Day Center. The Center is a statewide asset, having provided services to residents from 56 of Minnesota’s 87 counties last year—and the new vison has received support from a bipartisan group of legislators from every corner of the state of Minnesota.
To date, the State of Minnesota, Ramsey County, and other public sources have committed more than $25 million. This legislative session, Governor Mark Dayton has recommended a $12 million state investment in General Obligation Bonds for the Opportunity Center as well as investments in Housing Infrastructure Bonds, both of which are critical funding sources to complete the project.
Additionally, Catholic Charities is in the midst of a $40 million private Capital Campaign to fully fund Dorothy Day Place. In December, Catholic Charities announced that they had raised more than $35 million towards this goal. Fifteen prominent regional and statewide business leaders are spearheading the private fundraising campaign, including campaign co-Chairs Doug Baker, Jr., Chairman and CEO of Ecolab; Mary Brainerd, Chief Executive Officer and President of HealthPartners; and Andy Cecere, President and COO of U.S. Bank.
Nearly 400 generous individuals, corporations and foundations throughout the community have donated to the Capital Campaign. The campaign launched with a $5 million lead grant by The Richard M. Schulze Family Foundation—the most significant private investment to support Catholic Charities in recent history. Other
contributions of $1 million or more were received from Target; Hardenbergh Foundation; Premier Banks; 3M; Julie and Doug Baker, Jr. Foundation; Ecolab Foundation; Frey Foundation; Carl and Eloise Pohlad Family Foundation; and U.S. Bank Foundation.
“Today we are moving forward with a bold and ambitious vision,” added Marx. “The historic public-private partnership that has come together to transform the Dorothy Day Center—advancing permanent solutions to prevent and end homelessness—is a powerful example of what can be accomplished when all sectors of our community focus on a common goal.”
Phase II: Saint Paul Opportunity Center
Higher Ground Saint Paul is the first phase of a $100-million vision for the Dorothy Day Center. Called Dorothy Day Place, the new vision is based on an innovative and proven model in Minneapolis, which is also run by Catholic Charities.
The second phase consists of a six-floor, 50,000-square-foot building to be built on the site of the current Dorothy Day Center. The building will include the Saint Paul Opportunity Center, an integrated, one-stop location connecting people to critical services to improve their health, income, housing stability, and well-being. Services will be provided by a variety of community partner organizations, including Catholic Charities, Ramsey County, the Veterans Administration, and health care providers. The building will also include the Dorothy Day Residence, 171 permanent housing units above the Opportunity Center. Catholic Charities hopes to complete Phase II construction by 2018.
History and Project Timeline:
The Dorothy Day Center opened in 1981 as a drop-in center for meals. Over time, due to increasing homelessness, the center transitioned into an overnight shelter – something it was never designed or intended to do. Today, more than 6,000 people rely on the Dorothy Day Center each year, including hundreds of people who sleep on thin mats on the floor every night.
In 2011, for the first time in its history, Catholic Charities was forced to turn people away from the Dorothy Day Center, leading people to camp in the surrounding area—it was a breaking point that launched a community response. In 2012, Saint Paul Mayor Chris Coleman convened a diverse task force of community leaders to assess the urgent situation of overcrowding at the Dorothy Day Center, and in 2013 the Task Force issued its recommendation for an innovative new vision to prevent and end homelessness.
For more information, including how to get involved, visit www.dorothydaycampaign.org.
###
About Catholic Charities of Saint Paul and Minneapolis: Catholic Charities of St. Paul and Minneapolis serves those most in need. We are a leader at solving poverty, creating opportunity, and advocating for justice in the community. Our programs for children, families and adults annually help nearly 30,000 people, regardless of faith, background or circumstance. Through our advocacy efforts, Catholic Charities serves as a tireless voice for those who often go unheard. Our work would not be possible without our dedicated volunteers and donors.
Dorothy Day Place Press Kit
Endeavors Press Kit
Giving Tree Press Kit
Hope Street Opening Press Kit
Warming House Press Kit
Catholic Charities adopts Greater MSP Regional Indicators
Catholic Charities Opens Higher Ground Saint Paul
Catholic Charities Reaches Private Fundraising Goal
Margaret King Named Senior Director Of Single Adult Housing Division
Emergency Shelter and Central Intake to close at St. Joseph’s Home for Children
Catholic Charities Launches Search  for Next President and CEO
POVERTY FOR NO ONE. OPPORTUNITY FOR EVERYONE. IT STARTS WITH YOU.
MAKE A DONATION
TAKE ACTION
Donate
Volunteer
Advocate
INSIDE CATHOLIC CHARITIES
What We Do
Careers
Our Organization
WE CAN HELP
Find Help
All Locations
Contact
SIGN UP FOR OUR ENEWS:
"
*
" indicates required fields
First Name
*
Last Name
*
Email
*
Name
This field is for validation purposes and should be left unchanged.
Catholic Charities
1007 East 14th Street
Minneapolis, MN 55404
(612) 204-8500
info@cctwincities.org
© 2024 Catholic Charities Twin Cities
Privacy Policy
Site Map
Donate Now
ENews
