Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Site Kit by Google 1.126.0'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}

Body Text:
Project Access of Durham County
Skip to content
Home
About
Board & Staff
News
Employment at Project Access
Projects
Donated Specialty Care Network
Durham Homeless Care Transitions
Health Equipment Loan Program
Community Health Workers and Promoters Initiatives
Donate
Contact
Menu
Type and press enter to search
Vision
Project Access of Durham County envisions every Durham County resident will have access to quality health care in an environment that fosters health and wellbeing.
Mission
Our mission is to improve the health of uninsured and underserved Durham County residents. We provide access to an organized system of comprehensive care and collaborate with community partners to address barriers to health.
Donated Specialty Care Network
PADC links people without health insurance into a local network of clinics, laboratories, pharmacies, and hospitals that donate their efforts to help those in need. We serve eligible low-income, uninsured Durham residents who have specialty medical care needs.
Durham Homeless Care Transitions
The Medical Respite Pilot, which PADC helped create, expanded to become DHCT in 2016. This project helps homeless persons being discharged from hospitals to connect to health care, benefits, housing, and other supports.
Health Equipment Loan Program
PADC launched HELP in 2016 at The Scrap Exchange to recycle, restore, and loan for reuse durable medical equipment to any Durham County resident.
Community Health Worker Initiative
We collaborate with partner organizations to provide trainings and resources to Community Health Workers (CHWs) and Community Health Promoters (CHPs)
Donate
Sign-up for our newsletter
Each year, PADC helps
2K people
receive more than
3K episodes
of care
from specialty care physicians and other providers. This care is valued at
$5M
. Our DHCT project serves
40+ homeless
people annually. Through our HELP project, we lend
1K items
of durable medical equipment during the same time period.
Our Outcomes
Accomplishments
Together we have expanded the health care safety net to assure that low-income, uninsured persons are able to access timely, donated, specialty medical care. Accomplishments since 2008 include:
13,000 residents served
38K specialty consults provided
60K medications dispensed
$72M in health care donated
195 homeless people received care since 2016
4K items loaned through HELP since 2016
PADC Main Office
4206 N. Roxboro St.
Ste. 100
Durham, NC 27704
919.213.4077 phone
919.213.8234 fax
info@projectaccessdurham.org
Original site design by
Archetype
2024 © Project Access of Durham County. All rights reserved.
Scroll to top
