Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width'}
{'content': 'SEOmatic', 'name': 'generator'}
{'content': 'We look for innovative opportunities to invest in communities who are redesigning these systems in partnership with young people. Our investments Our…', 'name': 'description'}
{'content': 'no-referrer-when-downgrade', 'name': 'referrer'}
{'content': 'all', 'name': 'robots'}
{'content': 'en_US', 'property': 'og:locale'}
{'content': 'Raikes Foundation', 'property': 'og:site_name'}
{'content': 'website', 'property': 'og:type'}
{'content': 'https://raikesfoundation.org/', 'property': 'og:url'}
{'content': 'Home', 'property': 'og:title'}
{'content': 'We look for innovative opportunities to invest in communities who are redesigning these systems in partnership with young people. Our investments Our…', 'property': 'og:description'}
{'content': 'https://medium.com/@raikesfoundation', 'property': 'og:see_also'}
{'content': 'https://www.linkedin.com/company/raikes-foundation', 'property': 'og:see_also'}
{'content': 'https://twitter.com/raikesfdn', 'property': 'og:see_also'}
{'content': 'summary_large_image', 'name': 'twitter:card'}
{'content': '@RaikesFdn', 'name': 'twitter:site'}
{'content': '@RaikesFdn', 'name': 'twitter:creator'}
{'content': 'Home', 'name': 'twitter:title'}
{'content': 'We look for innovative opportunities to invest in communities who are redesigning these systems in partnership with young people. Our investments Our…', 'name': 'twitter:description'}
{'name': 'next-head-count', 'content': '26'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileColor', 'content': '#da532c'}
{'name': 'msapplication-config', 'content': '/favicon/browserconfig.xml'}
{'name': 'theme-color', 'content': '#ffffff'}

Body Text:
Raikes Foundation | Home
Who we are
About Us
Grants & Partners
How We Work
What We Do
Education
Housing Stability for Youth
Impact-Driven Philanthropy
Resourcing Equity & Democracy
News & Updates
Changemakers Welcome
Reports & Filings
Quick Links
Careers
Contact Us
Resources
Stay connected
Submit
Follow us
Breaking down barriers, building up solutions.
We believe in a world where
all communities
have the power to shape their own future.
Our goal is to bring people together to break down barriers that prevent communities from thriving and to support solutions that allow all of us to determine a fair and just future. The Raikes Foundation believes that when we work together and center the voices of young people, we can build a fair society for all.
What We Do
Areas of Focus
Youth-Serving Systems
We focus on areas of work that are essential for young people to thrive: a safe and stable place to call home and access to an educational system that creates conditions for students to succeed. We look for innovative opportunities to invest in communities who are redesigning these systems in partnership with young people.
Education
Housing Stability for Youth
Resourcing Equity and Democracy
We have a long way to go in realizing a society where everyone has access to the American Dream. Ensuring our democracy works for all of us must go hand in hand with improving our public systems to live up to our country’s promise. We believe a robust, multiracial democracy should—and can—provide the goods, services, and policies needed for our communities to succeed.
Impact-Driven Philanthropy
Resourcing Equity & Democracy
Collaboration for equity
We believe in collaboration, co-design, and shifting power to communities. Working hand in hand with our grant partners to achieve their goals is our priority.
Grants & Partners
Our investments
Our investments focus on building power in historically marginalized communities and supporting organizations working for a fair and inclusive society.
What We Do
$201M
distributed since inception
$21.7M
distributed in 2022
1552
grants made in the last five years.
Changemakers Welcome
Follow us on Medium, Twitter, LinkedIn, and sign up for our biannual newsletter by clicking the link below.
Changemakers Welcome
March 07, 2024
New Report Highlights Significant Progress of Collaborative, Multi-Sector Effort to Reduce Youth and Young Adult Homelessness in Washington State
Showcases Washington as a national leader in the field, spotlighting promising solutions and the power of public-private partnership to address persistent challenges and gaps
SEATTLE, WA – A new report released by the Office of Homeless Youth and A Way Home Washington details significant strides in addressing unaccompanied youth and young adult homelessness (YYA) in Washington state since a collaborative, multi-sector, statewide effort was launched in 2016. 
 “Yes to Yes” Washington State: Unaccompanied Youth and Young Adult  Homelessness Landscape Scan, funded by the Raikes Foundation and the Schultz Family Foundation, pairs comprehensive data analysis with perspectives from more than 100 young people with lived experience, service providers, and other stakeholders across the state. The report presents a roadmap and a vision for Washington state where unstably housed young people can receive the help they need promptly within their community.
There have been remarkable achievements including the near complete closure of the geographic service gap identified in 2016 as well as solutions showing promising results such as flexible diversion funds and closer partnerships with schools. The findings show that even when faced with a problem as complex and dynamic as YYA homelessness, progress can be made with focused funding, attention, and public-private partnerships that provide capacity for innovation.
Key findings include
40% reduction in unaccompanied youth and young adult homelessness from 2016-202275% of youth and young adults permanently housed in 2020 retained stable housing two years later15,338 unaccompanied YYA accessed the homelessness system in 202250% of the YYA who accessed the homelessness system in 2022 were Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC)Almost 1 in 10 were Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Questioning, and other (LGBQ+). However, this is likely an undercount because most sexual orientation data were unknownMore than one-third of YYA experiencing homelessness were disabledMore than 1 in 10 were pregnant or parenting
The report shows that while youth homelessness is an urgent crisis, it is a solvable problem. Since the state assembled a broad coalition of community leaders and youth with lived experience in 2016 to develop an integrated, consistent statewide approach, much has been learned about promising solutions. By putting young people at the center, focusing on prevention, collecting better data, investing in creative solutions such as cash assistance, working with schools, and intervening earlier to meet young people’s and family’s needs, positive progress is being made. Likewise, the state has seen significant strides disrupting the pipeline of youth exiting the foster care, behavioral health, and juvenile justice systems into homelessness over the past four years.
Recognizing the work to address YYA homelessness is far from done, the report is transparent about persistent challenges and gaps —especially in rural communities—where unaccompanied YYA continue to struggle to find safe housing and shelter, particularly youth under 18 years old, LGBTQIA2S+, BIPOC, and pregnant/parenting young people. 
This report delves into the authentic experiences of affected young people and reveals a narrative often overshadowed by numbers alone. It should become a vital resource for policymakers, advocates, and individuals dedicated to addressing youth and young adult homelessness. 
Quotes
“Washington’s youth have limitless potential. Unfortunately, due to circumstances often beyond their control, too many young people have fallen into homelessness or are at risk of becoming homeless. The good news is that with focused funding, attention and multi-sector partnership, we are making progress. Since establishing the Office of Homeless Youth and adopting a coordinated approach that centers the needs of young people we have seen a significant reduction in youth homelessness in our state. There is much more to be done, but this report shows that by working together, brighter futures are possible for all young people in our state.”– First Lady Trudi Inslee
“This report serves as a comprehensive reflection of the strides made since the last landscape scan in 2016. The journey, marked by significant progress and collaborative efforts, paints a vivid picture of Washington’s commitment to creating a more supportive and inclusive environment for its young people. From the inception of the Anchor Communities to the first-in-the-nation Homeless Student Stability Program, Washington has become a beacon of innovation in tackling the multifaceted challenges of unaccompanied YYA homelessness, which this report details. The tireless dedication of grassroots BIPOC and LGBTQIA2S+ organizations has played a pivotal role in providing essential, population-specific resources. Investments in stabilizing YYA exiting public systems of care, the establishment of sophisticated data systems, and the strategic deployment of flexible funds showcase the state’s holistic approach to addressing the issue.”– Kim Justice, Executive Director, Office of Homeless Youth
“This report is striking in that it so vividly showcases the complexity of addressing unaccompanied youth and young adult homelessness through the critical lens that it requires. It asks us to hold the significant quantitative data provided by our ever-evolving data systems in the same hands as the honest and rich qualitative data generously provided by young people and our communities. It challenges us to be thoughtful stewards of this data, listen to the voices and recommendations of young people with lived experience, and remain steadfastly committed to our collective efforts to end youth and young adult homelessness.”– Elisha Pritchett, Data &amp; Evaluation Director, A Way Home Washington
“The Landscape Scan offers a humanistic analysis of youth and young adult homelessness that prioritizes the voices of the experts who matter most: young people experiencing homelessness, and direct service providers who rarely receive the credit and compensation that their labor and dedication warrant. Utilizing the most comprehensive data sources available to us, the equity analyses highlight relationships between systemic oppression and homelessness. Homelessness is never the fault of the individual; it is our fault for not being able to help. This report provides a collection of lessons and recommendations that will better position us to offer the help that would have saved the lives of countless young people our system has failed. We must ensure that every young person is not only housed, but is given the level of support necessary to prevent their lives from being lived in survival mode. With what we know now, there’s no excuse– we must do better.”– Leeze Castro, Consultant, System Change Partners
“The results are clear: Sustained and focused efforts by state and federal agencies, alongside targeted investments and proactive public-private partnerships, have significantly reduced the number of youth and young adults experiencing homelessness. Our communities are in a crisis, and we have demonstrated the ability to change outcomes with persistent and adaptive approaches. Washington's comprehensive strategy—bolstering innovative partnerships, prioritizing grassroots BIPOC and LGBTQIAS+ leadership, and amplifying the voices of affected youth—has yielded tangible and positive results. This report confirms the imperative to persist and deepen our commitment. Supporting our youth today lays the foundation for a brighter, more prosperous future, enabling them to reach their potential and enrich our communities.”– Tricia Raikes, Co-Founder, Raikes Foundation
“Youth homelessness is an urgent crisis. But it is a solvable problem. Showing up for young adults starts with compassion, empathy, and love, and requires ensuring they have everything they need to reach their full potential. This report demonstrates what is possible when philanthropy, non-profits, and government come together in partnership. While we are seeing signs of progress, much more work remains to be done. We look forward to sharing what we are learning about promising solutions in our home state with leaders across the country.”– Sheri Schultz, chair and co-founder, Schultz Family Foundation
“Our kids deserve everyone giving it their best effort to help launch them into a productive life.   I'm incredibly inspired by the leadership of Governor Inslee's Office of Homeless youth and the innovation being leveraged through unprecedented local community collaboration.  Washington's investment in stopping youth homelessness is showing promising and heartening results, and is a beacon of hope for communities across the country.”– Sonya Campion, Founder, Campion Foundation

About Office of Homeless Youth
The Office of Homeless Youth Prevention &amp; Protection leads statewide efforts to prevent and end homelessness for youth and young adults by partnering with community programs to establish ongoing and future funding, policy, and best practices.
About A Way Home Washington
A Way Home Washington (AWHWA) is a statewide movement to prevent and end youth and young adult homelessness, with a focus on prioritizing young people of color and LGBTQ+ youth who experience homelessness at higher rates than their white, straight, cisgender peers. Co-Chaired by First Lady Trudi Inslee, AWHWA unites passionate stakeholders across the state to build systems that respond to the unique needs of all young people.
About Raikes Foundation
At the Raikes Foundation, we believe that when we work together and center the voices of young people, we can build a fair society for all. Our goal is to bring people together to break down barriers that prevent communities from thriving and to support solutions that allow all of us to determine a fair and just future for America. We make grants in four core areas: education, housing stability for youth, racial equity and democracy, and impact-driven philanthropy. Through our grants, we seek to redefine financial impact, support individuals, and promote community agency and solutions to build a more just and inclusive society where all young people have the support they need to achieve their full potential. To learn more about our work, visit https://raikesfoundation.org.
About the Schultz Family Foundation
The Schultz Family Foundation's mission is to create greater opportunity, accessible to all. Our work is deeply rooted in the lives and values of our co-founders, Sheri and Howard Schultz, who believe talent is everywhere, but opportunity is not. We seek to apply the lessons they have learned over the decades to seed innovations and scale solutions to help young people successfully navigate the transition to adulthood and positively impact the trajectory of their lives. We are investors in unleashing potential and unlocking opportunity, working in partnership with employers, entrepreneurs, non-profits, and governments that share our aspiration of enabling everyone to access the full promise of America. Learn more at: www.schultzfamilyfoundation.org
June 29, 2023
The Raikes Foundation Reacts to SCOTUS Decision on Affirmative Action
SEATTLE, WA - Today, the U.S. Supreme Court issued its decision on Students for Fair Admissions, Inc. (SFAI) v. President and Fellows of Harvard and SFAI v. University of North Carolina, rejecting 40 years of precedent and reversing affirmative action in college and university admissions. With affirmative action now restricted, representation and diversity in education are expected to suffer significant setbacks, undoing decades of progress, exacerbating injustices students of color already face, and diminishing the quality of education that students of all races receive.
The Supreme Court’s ruling to overturn affirmative action in college admissions undermines the progress we have made in promoting equal opportunity and addressing historical injustices. Affirmative action allows college and university admission offices to put every application into context and helps break down the barriers that keep students of color from achieving academic, professional, and personal success. Everyone – no matter the color of their skin, the income of their family, or the zip code of their home – deserves an education that prepares them for success.  
Make no mistake, today’s decision is not only an impediment for students of color – it undermines the principles of fairness and equal opportunity that are core to a just society. Without adequate representation, all students will miss out on the diversity of perspectives, experiences, and backgrounds that is essential to their own development and their ability to succeed in a global economy. Together, we must redouble our efforts to create a future where diversity is celebrated, and every student can thrive and contribute to a stronger and more inclusive nation. 
The Raikes Foundation remains steadfast in our commitment to dismantling systemic barriers for all individuals, particularly those from historically underserved communities, so they have the opportunity to thrive and contribute to a more just and equitable society. 






###


About The Raikes Foundation  At the Raikes Foundation, we believe that when we work together and center the voices of young people, we can build a fair society for all. Our goal is to bring people together to break down barriers that prevent communities from thriving and to support solutions that allow all of us to determine a fair and just future for America. We make grants in four core areas: education, housing stability for youth, racial equity and democracy, and impact-driven philanthropy. Through our grants, we seek to redefine financial impact, support individuals, and promote community agency and solutions to build a more just and inclusive society where all young people have the support they need to achieve their full potential. To learn more about our work, visit https://raikesfoundation.org.
May 18, 2023
The Raikes Foundation Announces Senior Director of New Resourcing Equity and Democracy Portfolio
SEATTLE, WA - The Raikes Foundation today announced the hiring of Maria De La Cruz as Senior Director of the Resourcing Equity and Democracy (RED) portfolio. As Senior Director, Maria will lead the Foundation’s new portfolio to elevate, support, and fund organizations building a more fair, representative, and effective democracy in the United States.
“We’re thrilled to welcome Maria to the Raikes Foundation and we look forward to seeing our new RED portfolio thrive under her leadership,” said Jeff and Tricia Raikes, co-founders of the Raikes Foundation. “With 15 years of experience advancing equity and justice, Maria has the background, skills, and knowledge we need to catalyze the Foundation’s work to support a multiracial democracy.”  
 
“Under Maria’s direction, I know the Raikes Foundation can make real progress in building a robust, multiracial democracy through the power of community organizing,” said Executive Director of the Raikes Foundation Dennis Quirin. “I look forward to carrying out the Foundation’s vision and strategy for the new RED portfolio alongside her.”
Dennis and Maria will together spearhead the RED portfolio and execute on its mission of leveling the playing field for all individuals. By partnering with youth organizers, community base-builders, and peer funders, the RED portfolio will explore the evolution of modern organizing structures as vehicles for a more fair and just society for all. 
“I’m proud to join an organization that is adapting to today’s reality and building the inclusive, multiracial democracy that young people deserve,” said Maria. “I’m excited to apply my background in resource mobilization and community organizing to counter the threats to our democracy and tear down the barriers communities face.”
 
De La Cruz currently serves as the Vice-President and Chief External Affairs Officer at the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy, where she oversees strategic development as well as communications and marketing efforts. She also served as the founder and principal of MDLC Consulting, which partners with movement leaders, high-capacity donors, and philanthropic institutions to advance racial and gender justice. Before that, she was the president of the Headwaters Foundation for Justice, a foundation that amplifies the power of community to advance equity and justice. 
###

About The Raikes Foundation
At the Raikes Foundation, we believe that when we work together and center the voices of young people, we can build a fair society for all. Our goal is to bring people together to break down barriers that prevent communities from thriving and to support solutions that allow all of us to determine a fair and just future for America. We make grants in four core areas: education, housing stability for youth, racial equity and democracy, and impact-driven philanthropy. Through our grants, we seek to redefine financial impact, support individuals, and promote community agency and solutions to build a more just and inclusive society where all young people have the support they need to achieve their full potential.
May 17, 2023
The Raikes Foundation Goes All In On Racial Equity And Democracy; Creating New Grantmaking Portfolio and Identity
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE:
May 17, 2023 
CONTACT: May D. Sifuentes | may.sifuentes@raikesfoundation.org 

The Raikes Foundation Goes All In On Racial Equity And Democracy; Creating New Grantmaking Portfolio and Identity 
The Foundation announces new strategic grantmaking portfolio led by social justice advocate and veteran philanthropy expert Maria De La Cruz; supports efforts to build a just, multiracial democracy
Raikes unveils the transformation of its brand identity 
(Seattle, WA – May 17, 2023) Today, the Raikes Foundation will expand its current focus on education, impact-driven philanthropy, and housing stability for youth to include a new strategic vision and grantmaking portfolio focused on building a robust multiracial democracy in the United States. The new portfolio – Resourcing Equity and Democracy (RED) – will be led by Maria De La Cruz, who joins the Foundation from the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy where she served as Vice-President and Chief External Affairs Officer. Under Maria’s leadership, RED will elevate, support, and fund organizations and initiatives dedicated to building a more fair, representative, and effective democracy and civil society through community organizing. 
“At the Raikes Foundation, we believe that our communities should have the power, tools, and resources they need to shape a fair and just future for all. Right now, many young people in America are not given a fair opportunity to succeed, and the systems that are meant to empower young people are failing them, creating deep divisions and inequities in communities across the country,” said Dennis Quirin, Executive Director of the Raikes Foundation. “We are excited to launch RED and our new brand identity to meet this moment, and we look forward to continuing our work so that one day social or geographic factors are no longer a predictor of outcomes for young people in our country.” 
“We are proud of the steps that the Raikes Foundation is taking under Dennis’s leadership to build a strong, representative democracy through the power of community organizing,” said Jeff and Tricia Raikes, co-founders of the Raikes Foundation. “The RED portfolio will be a critical component of our collective work to reimagine systems, to better support all young people to reach their full potential. Together, we will build a fair and just country where every young person has an opportunity to thrive.”
In line with the new RED portfolio, the Foundation remains committed to centering its existing programmatic areas – education, housing stability for youth, and impact-driven philanthropy – on racial equity and justice grantmaking. As the U.S. continues to confront long-standing challenges with racism and injustice that are exacerbated by a fracturing democracy, the Raikes Foundation’s RED portfolio seeks to take urgent action. 
In addition, the Foundation announced the hiring of Maria De La Cruz as Senior Director of RED who will lead the overall strategy, program development, and grantmaking for the portfolio. Maria joins the Foundation with over 15 years of experience working in philanthropy and advancing social justice, most recently serving as the Vice-President and Chief External Affairs Officer at the National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy, where she oversaw strategic development as well as communications and marketing efforts. Maria brings a wealth of knowledge and skills to break down the structural barriers facing historically under-represented communities and help build a more just and fair society which is core to the RED portfolio’s mission. 
“I am excited to join the Raikes Foundation and lead the work in building and implementing the new RED grantmaking portfolio,” said Maria De La Cruz, Senior Director, Resourcing Equity and Democracy (RED) portfolio at the Raikes Foundation. “At a time when American democracy is in severe decline and flagrant inequities continue to persist across all our systems, there has never been a more urgent need for the RED portfolio’s body of work. Through RED, I look forward to supporting and establishing strategic partnerships with changemakers and organizations on the ground to build a more just and fair society so all communities can succeed.” 
To support this new vision and focus, the Raikes Foundation also unveiled a new brand identity, including a dynamic new logo, color palette, and redesigned website. The new branding and design demonstrates Raikes’ continued commitment to bringing communities together and empowering them to shape a more fair and just future. Through RED, the Raikes Foundation envisions a future with a robust multiracial democracy, one that levels the playing field so that individuals from all communities and backgrounds can succeed and reach their full potential. 
Prior to RED and its new rebrand, the Foundation also announced it will spend down its total endowment by 2038. For more information on the Raikes Foundation’s RED portfolio or to learn more about the Foundation’s work, please visit https://raikesfoundation.org.
###
About The Raikes Foundation
At the Raikes Foundation, we believe that when we work together and center the voices of young people, we can build a fair society for all. Our goal is to bring people together to break down barriers that prevent communities from thriving and to support solutions that allow all of us to determine a fair and just future for America. We make grants in four core areas: education, housing stability for youth, racial equity and democracy, and impact-driven philanthropy. Through our grants, we seek to redefine financial impact, support individuals, and promote community agency and solutions to build a more just and inclusive society where all young people have the support they need to achieve their full potential.
May 15, 2023
Inside Philanthropy: The Education Culture Wars Are Only Growing Fiercer. These Funders Are Fighting Back.
“We hope that more funders will begin to wrap their heads around what’s at stake — not just for our education system, but for our democracy — if we continue to go down this path that’s really dragging us backwards."
September 29, 2022
Building Anti-Racist Schools Amidst Backlash
A Conversation with the National Equity Project’s Kathleen Osta.
Sign up to hear from us!
Submit
Grants & Partners
Careers
Reports & Filings
Contact Us
© 2024 Raikes Foundation All Rights Reserved.
