Meta Information:
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'Reginald Andrews had a big heart and left this world too soon. We want to keep his memory alive with this foundation. Come out for our annual memorial bowling tournament and annual memorial golf tournament.'}
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': 'The Crossing Golf Course,Durham, North Carolina,Reggie Andrews Sr. Memorial Golf Tournament,Partners for Youth,Boys and Girls Club of Cabarrus,foundation,charity golf tourney,fundraising,Reginald Andrews,bowling tournament'}
{'http-equiv': 'x-ua-compatible', 'content': 'ie=edge'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'web_author', 'content': 'WTE Solutions: agile1 > AS12_Prod_1'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileColor', 'content': '#603cba'}
{'name': 'msapplication-config', 'content': '/App_Themes/reggieslegacy/assets/fav/browserconfig.xml'}
{'name': 'theme-color', 'content': '#ffffff'}

Body Text:
Reggies Legacy - The Reggie Andrews Sr. Annual Memorial Golf Tournament and Bowling Tournament - Home
Login or Join
Reggie's Legacy
Toggle main menu visibility
About
Reggie's Story
Testimonials
Board of Directors
Photo Galleries
Pictures of Reggie
11th Annual Tourney
Golf Tourney
Golf Registration
FAQs
Directions
Get Involved
Who We Support
Sponsors
Become a Sponsor
Corporate Partners
2023 Sponsors
2022 Sponsors
Purchase a T-Shirt
Contact
Welcome to Reggie's Legacy!
In honor and memory of the late Reggie Andrews, Sr.
Contact Us!
Golf Tourney Info
Thank you to everyone who came out for our 15th Annual Reggie’s Legacy Golf Tournament! Save the date for our next one - October 6, 2024.
Who We Support
Over the past 12 years, we have raised more than $52,000 to help the Boys and Girls Club of Cabarrus County and The Durham Children's Initiative.
Get Involved
Are you interested in becoming a sponsor or promote your company by donating something for the swag bags? Would you like to purchase a shirt? Are you are interested in playing in the tournament?
Sponsors
Your support is crucial to our continued success! To our faithful sponsors (corporate, platinum, gold, silver and bronze, hole), golfers and volunteers- what can we say? You all are the best!
This is all for our Youth
In 2008, I lost my husband Reg. In 2009 with the help of friends, I started Reggie's Legacy. Reggie's Legacy is a non-profit foundation that donates money to two very important youth organizations,
Boys and Girls Club of Concord
and
The Durham Children's Initiative
.
Since he passed, I’ve committed myself to doing everything I can to raise money for the youth in the Concord and Durham, North Carolina areas.  Helping to build a better foundation for youth is near and dear to my heart, so I hope that you will find it in yours to become a part of Reggie's Legacy. I host an annual Reggie Andrews, Sr. Memorial Golf Tournament in October.
Reggie's Story
Reginald Andrews, Sr., Reggie, Big Reg, Reg, The Big Fella, Chief, Big Daddy -- We all knew him by many names but he was the same person with a heart bigger than life. He was a terrific husband, son, father, brother, uncle, cousin and friend. He touched so many lives and will continue to live on in all of us.
Reggie excelled at playing sports in middle school and high school, concentrating on football and track at Concord High School, Concord, North Carolina. He received a full scholarship to Duke University and continued his football career as a defensive lineman from 1982-1986. He achieved most outstanding defensive lineman in 1984 and 1985 as well as most valuable player-Defense- in 1985.
Read more
Thank You to Our Corporate Partners
Reggie's Legacy
PO Box 73092
Durham, NC 27722
501(c)3 Non-profit Organization
Register for Our Newsletter!
©
Reggies Legacy | All Rights Reserved
Powered by
Agilesite V12
