Meta Information:
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width'}
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'Read 171 reviews from the world’s largest community \n    for readers. Shelby is nervous to start her senior year after spending the whole summer away from home.…'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'initial-scale=1.0, width=device-width'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Remember Me Always'}
{'name': 'twitter:title', 'content': 'Remember Me Always'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'books.book'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1502697365i/33918886.jpg'}
{'name': 'twitter:image', 'content': 'https://images-na.ssl-images-amazon.com/images/S/compressed.photo.goodreads.com/books/1502697365i/33918886.jpg'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.goodreads.com/book/show/33918886-remember-me-always'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Goodreads'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'Shelby is nervous to start her senior year after spendi…'}
{'name': 'twitter:description', 'content': 'Shelby is nervous to start her senior year after spendi…'}
{'name': 'next-head-count', 'content': '6'}

Body Text:
Remember Me Always by Renee     Collins | Goodreads
Home
My Books
Browse ▾
Recommendations
Choice Awards
Genres
Giveaways
New Releases
Lists
Explore
News & Interviews
Loading...
Community ▾
Groups
Quotes
Ask the Author
People
Sign in
Join
Jump to ratings and reviews
Want to read
Kindle $8.79
Rate this book
Remember Me Always
Renee     Collins
3.63
1,633
ratings
171
reviews
Want to read
Kindle $8.79
Rate this book
Shelby is nervous to start her senior year after spending the whole summer away from home. After all, it's hard to be carefree when you're trying to protect a secret.
Shelby was in a devastating car accident, and everyone in town thinks that she was undergoing more physical therapy in Denver. Instead, Shelby's mother enrolled her in a clinical program to stop the panic attacks that started after the crash. The treatment erased Shelby's memory of the accident, but she can't help feeling as if a piece of herself is missing, that the treatment took more than the doctors claimed.
So when Shelby starts hallucinating a boy with dark and mysterious eyes, she knows it must be a side-effect of the clinical program. Except you can't kiss hallucinations. And this boy insists that they know each other and are in love...
Genres
Young Adult
Romance
Contemporary
Audiobook
Mystery
Realistic Fiction
Fiction
...more
309 pages, Paperback
First published October 3, 2017
Book details & editions
Loading interface...
Loading interface...
About the author
Renee     Collins
3
books
317
followers
I'm the author of Relic, Until We Meet Again, and Remember Me Always. I love historical settings, magic, and semi-tragic romance. I am represented by Jessica Regel.
Ratings
&
Reviews
What do
you
think?
Rate this book
Write a Review
Friends
&
Following
Create a free account
to discover what your friends think of this book!
Community Reviews
3.63
1,633
ratings
171
reviews
5 stars
385 (23%)
4 stars
524 (32%)
3 stars
510 (31%)
2 stars
165 (10%)
1 star
49 (3%)
Search review text
Filters
English
Displaying 1 - 30 of 171 reviews
Kim at Divergent Gryffindor
488 reviews
152 followers
November 25, 2017
Until We Meet Again was one of my most anticipated books the year it came out, and when I read it, it was what I expected and more. I'm not usually a fan of romance mysteries, but seeing as Renee Collins wrote this book, I immediately jumped at the opportunity to read and review it. I really loved her previous novel, and maybe I expected too much from this one. Needless to say, I was kind of disappointed.
Remember Me Always was a really quick read, as are most romance mystery novels. The mystery was really interesting at first, and I felt like that played a huge factor in the speed with which I read this book. However, I was really not satisfied with how the story went. I was really invested to it until around 60% of the novel, and then I just didn't care about it anymore and just wanted to get it over with.
The main factor of my dislike is that I hated the male protagonist/love interest. He kept lying and being suspicious, and although learned towards the end why he had to go to such lengths, I didn't recover the trust and interest I had in him in the beginning. Overall, I liked his character at first, but then just grew to distrust him as the lies piled on. He just didn't win me over, so the romance part - which is a huge part - of the novel just didn't work out for me.
I think overall, I just hated all the lying in the novel. Towards the end we all learn that it's for the good of the main character, but still. It constantly bothered me and I just started disliking the novel once everything came out. The book features and interesting concept, but it just didn't work out for me.
2017-releases
rating-2-stars
10 likes
Like
Comment
i.
332 reviews
35 followers
December 8, 2017
I liked the beginning of the book a lot, but then I began losing interest as I figured out where the story was heading and then towards the end, I was surprised by the decisions the main character made.
I felt that the novel was a bit of a cautionary tale for very young YA readers who dream of falling in love with a mysterious boy but with an unexpected ending showing personal growth.
www.theleisurediaries.blogspot.com
9 likes
Like
Comment
may ☆彡
112 reviews
7 followers
October 4, 2018
SO MANY EMOTIONS
So basically this book destroyed me and then put me back together but then destroyed me all over again. Very confusing. Also, the ending was very unsatisfying. I’m finding that a lot in ya books these days. It’s honestly just really annoying.
So many things are thrown at you time and time again!!!!!! I hated Shelby’s mom and then I thought she was okay and then I was really upset with her but I didn’t hate her. I feel like all of these characters just had so many of their own ulterior motives trying to turn her into a different person, the one that THEY wanted her to be. It was pretty sad to read, actually, once I realized what was happening.
Shelby was funny, kind, but kind of reserved at times. That’s not to say that I didn’t like her, because I did, and what she did at the end was really honorable.
Auden was such a good person. Kind of. But he was, but he wasn’t. Everyone in this book had major flaws. But I guess I kind of enjoyed that. It just seemed so... real.
Shelby’s mom was insane. She was definitely an asshole and way too controlling of her daughter. I mean, she did love Shelby and was only doing what she thought was best. But still, a jerk.
Cam was honestly hilarious. Don’t get me wrong, I STILL SHIP SHELBY & AUDEN. But he was okay I suppose.
Grace was kind and sweet and my heart hurt for her when I found out what she had to go through with Mike. No one should ever stand for that. But she was also super secretive, and lied to Shelby quite a bit, which I couldn’t really get past, considering that they were supposed to be “best friends”. I’m sorry, but I would want my best friend to tell me if part of my life was erased from my memory. I know, I know, it’s just so unreasonable to think that my best friend might do that for me. What am I thinking?
I really liked this book. It felt like a fast-paced thriller without any horror-y or psychological aspects to it. Which was honestly really nice because I feel like you don’t find those very often. I would definitely recommend this book for anyone who wants a fun, interesting read that will hook you in right away (but might kind of let you down in the end. I mean really, I just wanted to know what would happen)!!
birthday-wish-list
9 likes
Like
Comment
Jessica
102 reviews
10 followers
August 20, 2021
HUGE CW: STALKING AND ABUSIVE RELATIONSHIPS
This book might actually be the worst book I've read this year. I don't even know where to start. Remember back around the Twilight craze when stalking was the new 'hot YA thing'? Yeah. This book fits right in.
There are going to be spoilers. There are going to be MASSIVE SPOILERS so if you care, stop reading. It you don't care, then keep reading, but don't get upset when you want to throw your electronic device across the room.
Shelby - Main Character (entire story is from her POV)
I really liked Shelby in Chapter One. Probably because I’ve never ‘connected’ with a MC so fast: ‘Two large Dr. Peppers and two overflowing bowls of nachos from the gas station Red licorice. Spicy beef jerky.’ Aside from the red licorice this was my junk food of choice in high school (and some still is today). I liked that Shelby felt uneasy about something. I like the mystery. This is about all I'm going to say that is positive about Shelby.
For the remaining 99.99% of the book we get the weakest MC I've read in awhile. Every single guy in the story has to tell Shelby what to do. She is incapable of making her own decisions or even having her own thoughts. The guys in the story REPEATEDLY disregard what she says and completely remove any shred of consent all under the ruse of it being playing or worse, because they 'know better' than she does.
It takes Shelby well over 70% of the book to DO ANYTHING. Mystery guy Auden shows up, swears her secrecy and she just smiles and go along with it. She doesn't ask anyone. She doesn't talk to anyone. She doesn't even try to figure out if anyone remembers them as a couple.
Shelby refuses to have conversations with people until the PLOT wants to resolve something. Shelby starts yelling matches with her mom, because Mama won't tell her the truth, but whem mom tries to explain Shelby throws and tantrum and stomps off.
Auden is LITERALLY STALKING SHELBY THROUGHOUT THE ENTIRE BOOK and she just blindly goes along with whatever he says because even though he's a stranger to her 'her heart' knows him or some other BS. He shows up at a school bonfire, then follows her into the depths of the stage at school. He magically pops up all the time in places he shouldn't be.
Quote from the book: ‘As much as I don’t want to admit it, I’m curious. This guy is weirdly compelling.’ STOP ROMANTICIZING STALKER-LIKE BEHAVIOR IN YA BOOKS!
Auden attempts to explain that Shelby's mom hates him and that's why they need to keep their relationship a secret. He tells Shelby to keep their texts and calls a secret from everyone and they can only meet in secret. He goes this entire plan while they're sitting in broad daylight in a cafe in town.
Auden is especially intense about keeping EVERYTHING ABOUT THEM A SECRET. Do you want to know who else does this? Gross people who groom children.
Shelby agrees to all of this and then later has this realizatoin: ‘At this point I can’t stop myself. Maybe this is how the moth feels when it catches sight of the bug zapper’s blue glow.’ So, you acknowledge this is dangerous, but then don’t take any precautions?
The story moseys along (there is litearlly no mystery to this it's a romance with a really obvious plot twist) and Shelby tries to confrnt Auden about laying games and messing with her.
“I’m not playing games.” [Auden’s] expression goes serious. “I’d never want you to think that.” Uh, Auden, you literally played a game to get Shelby to meet you at the coffee shop. YOU TOLD HER THAT YOU CAN'T EXPLAIN ANYTHING OVER TEXT AND NEEDED TO SEE HER IN PERSON. Am I crazy? Am I the one hallucinating? Is this not some dumb game he’s been playing? He’s purposely keeping information from her to make her spend time with him. (Auden continues to do this for the remainder of the book. EVERY TIME Shelby asks a direct question he hedges and gives a half truth. Shelby doesn't call him out on this until it's too late to matter). In fact just a few paragraphs later this happens: “Things are very complicated right now. I’m not sure I can fully explain." BUT YOU'RE NOT PLAYING GAMES, RIGHT? RIGHT AUDEN? You’d never want her to think you were playing games with her.
Shelby finally feels uneasy and wants to leave. But a few lines later: “I’m not sure what to think of you yet.. You’re a little intense… I’ve always had a thing for intense guys.”
Auden goes out of his way to complete fabricate a fake reenactment of their first date. He shows her a box of junk he's kept to 'remember their relationship.' Shelby gets the first indication that maybe he's right. Maybe they do know each other. She gets overwhelmed and asks him to stop showing her things. He says no. She asks again, practically begging, he continues on. She runs away, overwhelmed, and as soon as she gets to her car SHE BLAMES HERSELF. She thinks she was 'rude' to run off. We completely ignore that Auden refused to listen to the girl he supposedly loves and pressured her into something she was CLEARLY uncomfortable with.
The entire time Shelby drives away from the failed 'date' she checks her phone, hoping Auden will text or call. *eye roll*
Auden tells Shelby about lying about the first date and takes her to a taco place. They hav a conversation about how he's from NYC and Shelby gives us this gem: “There’s Mexican food in New York?” Let’s just pretend that Shelby didn’t say that, okay? This girl is seventeen. Is she THAT stupid (yes, the answer is yes. Look at how dumb she’s being with a guy she hardly knows).
At some point Grace (Shelby's BFF) lets it slip that there had been a trial. Shelby decides to do nothing about this information and pretends like it's not a big deal (she can't remember it so who cares, right?)
Later Auden recreates another date. Shelby has been worried about when their first kiss will happen. She makes it clear she's not ready to kiss Auden (SHE TELL HIM THIS) and one of the next things out of Auden's mouth is a joke about having sex. This is played off as a big joke and Shelby finds it cute or something.
Then this happens:
“I was going to wait to show you my room… Because I think it might trigger some memories if I present it right. We spent … a lot of time in here.”
My face burns with blood. “Oh.”
“Not like that...necessarily.” … “I just mean we hung out here a lot.”
(But Auden's not going to play games with her... Remember that conversation? So he just let her assume they'd had sex. But tee-hee it was a LIE!)
Shelby whines on and on about how there are things missing from her memory (DUH) and how nothing makes sense: ‘It’S aNoThEr ReMiNdEr ThAt ThErE aRe StIlL pIeCeS oF mY sToRy ThAt I dOn’T hAvE’ SHELBY YOU ARE WILFULLY IGNORING THOSE PIECES. Grace told you about a trial. Auden told you that Karen and Mr Creepy Drama teacher know him. If you really wanted to know SOMETHING YOU’D DO SOMETHING TO LEARN MORE. Not just sit around and lust after Auden.
The above happens over and over again: ‘...another thought needles into the back of my mind; maybe there’s more to the story.’ SHELBY. There was a trial. There is a boy who you are either having a shared hallucination with half the town, or he actually knows your past. There was a job you forgot you had with Auden. OF COURSE THERE IS MORE TO THE STORY DO SOMETHING ABOUT IT ALREADY.
At one point Shelby is seconds away from a full-fledged panic attack. Her method of recovery, telling Auden she's ready to kiss him. Auden pulls away and I almost ALMOST think we're going to learn something here. But it's only so they can drive out to the lake and recreate their first kiss. BOO! HISS! NO.
So they kiss and Shelby remembers everything about their first kiss.
We get to the midpoint and Auden is stupid and shows up at Shelby's school. Grace sees him and calls Shelby's mom to manipulate Shelby into leaving with her. We then get an entire filler worth of pointless back and forth so that Grace can drop the bombshell of Auden going to prison. Shelby ignores Auden (instead of demanding answers) and gives him another reason to harass her endlessly until she agrees to talk to him.
Auden lies about why he went to prison (he stretches a truth and completely ignores the REAL reason). Shelby agrees to meet Auden and he tries to blame the BOTH OF THEM for being 'discovered' when he was the one who showed up unannounced at her school, ignored Shelby's plea to leave and then refused to leave when Grace showed up and told him to leave as well. But yeah, clearly that was 'their' fault.
Auden feeds Shelby more BS: “Haven’t you felt that what we have is special? Maybe you can’t remember it, but you can feel it.” This is like abuser 101, right? You like me so just forget everything else. We can be happy. You LOVE ME. That should be enough for you.
Then Auden completely morphs into groomer elite: “I’ve given this a lot of thought, Shelby. We need to go. We need to get out of Orchardview. Today. Right now.” RED FLAGS. RED FLAGS. The flag of China isn’t as red as this flag. Did the author want Auden to come across as an abuser this strongly?
“If you really want control of your life and your mine, you have to reach out and take it. Your mother won’t willingly let you have it.” Some come with me and I can gaslight and manipulate you until you’re broken and have no choice but to love me. Cut all your ties and run away with me where the only person you know is me. Where the only person you rely on is me. Let me continue to abuse you and give you half truths covered in beautiful lies of how great we are. Come with me, Shelby. Submit to me, Shelby.
Shelby is overwhelmed and tells Auden to leave her alone. HE FOLLOWS HER and harasses her until she agrees to think about leaving with him.
Before actually leaving, he asks Shelby for a hug. SHE SMILES AND GIVES IN. ‘Any resistance melts the moment he holds me. I won’t tell him this, of course, but as his hands slowly tighten around me, I’m completely lost in the embrace. Lost in the best way. As we break apart he presses a kiss to my cheek. My heart pounds the entire drive back to school.’ Maybe Shelby is color blind and all those red flags just look like normal flags?
Auden doesn't reach out to Shelby AND SHE'S MAD ABOUT IT. He does the one thing she wants and she's upset. This is EXACTLY why guys think girls play games. Because of crap like this. Because of these dumb and idiotic stories where girls want guys to read their minds. This makes me BEYOND ANGRY. More angry than A LOT of other stuff that happened in the book (almost).
Shelby decides to run away with Auden to CA. They have no plan. They have no place to stay. As far as I understand it they have no money. So that's a brilliant idea. Have fun living in your car, I guess.
Shelby invites Auden over (or he just shows up, I'm not sure I didn't note it) and she says she'll run off with him. He immediately tries to have sex with her. Shelby stops him. He makes jokes. I vomit. For someone who pretends to care so much about her, he really doesn't. Auden finally tells her point blank that they've never had sex, but he's slept with other girls. She's jealous or something.
A lot of pointless crap happens and then FINALLY FIND OUT THAT Auden had been driving the car and Shelby had been in the passenger seat. They also killed a man who had been out for a jog that night (this isn't the true story, so buckle up for that). Shelby is devistated that her previous Auden is a murderer. Mama drops the bomb that Shelby has a restraining order against him. Whatever.
Shelby (understandibly) is heartbroken and mopes in her room for days. Then Grace shows up and forces Shelby to go to the homecoming dance with her ex-boyfriend Cam. Apparently all a girl needs to get over earth shatter revelations is a pretty dress and makeup because Shelby is all smiles and happiness at the dance.
Cam kisses her on the doorstep - despite her not wanting a kiss. He tries to justify it. She stands up to him and tell him not to kiss her with out asking. He turns the whole thing into a joke and she laughs. STOP MAKING CONSENT INTO A JOKE. THIS IS HALF THE REASON WHY R*PE CULTURE EXISTS.
Auden shows up and creates a scene and Mama threatens to shoot him (I kind of wish she had). Shelby convinces Mama to let her talk to Auden (the GUY WHO HAS A RESTRINING ORDER AGAIN HER) alone. Mama calmly agrees to this, but threatns to call the cops if he's not gone in five minutes. WHAT IS THE POINT OF A RESTAINING ORDER IF YOU'RE NOT GOING TO FOLLOW IT?
I think I stopped taking notes for awhile because the next thing I have is that Shelby drives out to the accident site and the WHOLE THING COMES BACK TO HER. She had been the one driving. Auden had been running after her. She hit and killed the man. Auden called 911 from the dead guy's phone and drove off. Shelby is in shock and Auden lies and says there was an accident. Later he turns himself in and makes Shelby swear to keep quiet about what really happened. (I told you to buckle up).
Shelby is in shock again and moping around (GET THERAPY - this isn't even snarky. She's just learned a huge thing and has no healthy outlet to talk about it) but Mama saves the day by calling Auden and ripping the restraining order in half - because that's how that works. Mama says that Auden and Shelby need to be together so she can get her Shelby baby back. I'm not even joking. All the yelling and the threaning to shoot Auden and in one hushed conversation she practically forces them together so he can 'fix' her. Therapy be d*mned. Love is what Shelby needs.
‘Sometimes the heart speaks in a way that transcends words.’ AND SOMETIMES YOUR STUPD MOM LETS YOU GET BACK INTO A RELATIONSHIP WITH A PSYCHOPATH WHO HAS BEEN GROOMING YOU SINCE THE DAY HE ‘REMET’ YOU.
They talk and it's boring and stupid and basically Shelby forgives him. BUT WAIT. Auden isn't done mainpulating the crap out of this situation. He somehow convinces the drama teacher to let him be Romeo oppostie Shelby's Juliet (backstory - ths is Shelby's dream role, Cam is opposite her despite Auden audition for the spot. Shelby has skipped the last week of performance, and since Auden doesn't even go to her school he has no idea what he should be doing. Shelby had let drama teacher know she was dropping out of the play.) Because Auden knows best and knows what Shelby needs she of course gives in and agrees to be part of the play again.
There's actually some nice bit of growth from Shelby about how she doesn't know if she deserves to be happy after what she's done (killed a man - innocently or not) but of course Auden is there to remind her that her dreams are worth it. There was honestly a moment where I almost thought Shelby was going to do the right thing and take some time to just 'be' instead of trying to slip back into her own life. But it's okay because she tells the drama teacher that she wants all the proceeds from the play that night to go to the family of the man she killed (this is after she complained about the lack of budget the drama department receives, but whatever).
Shelby is getting ready for the play to start: ‘I understand Juliet in a way I never could before. Her pain, yes but also her love.’
A talent scout has come to the play, as a favor to the drama teacher and tells Shelby how great she is and to contact him when she gets to LA.
Shelby tells Auden that she needs to do things on her own. He litearlly begs her to stay with him. SHe pretends to grow a backbone but litearally cries as soon as she drives away from him.
Shelby I guess confesses to the accident and has to complete community service hours (there's nothing about the fact that Auden perjured himself by taking the blame for Shelby).
Then she just packs up her crap and moves to LA with no plan or even a job. YAY. BOOK OVER.
Let's talk about Grace now. Grace is probably the worst best friend to ever pretend to be a best friend. She constantly pushes Cam and Shelby together - despite Shelby telling her every time that she has no interested in getting back together with Cam.
Grace literally invents drama to get Shelby's attention. Grace had an abusive boyfriend (this was a weird subplot that never really played properly and only reinforced what an idiot Shelby was about Auden) and the only time this stalker ex is important is when it distracts Shelby from other things.
Grace refuses to tell Shelby the truth about Auden and then gets impatient when Shelby demands answers.
Now for Auden. Auden is the biggest piece of crap love interest in the history of love interests. Edward was a creeper who watched Bella sleep but Auden is Christian Gray levels of messed up. He continually manipulates and abuses Shelby through the entire book, but it's all written in a way to make Shelby be the negative part fo the relationship. Shelby constantly worries about hurting Auden's feelings. She's consantly on edge because on their conversations but he never has to apologize. When he does apologize (to the best of my recollection because I was tired of taking notes) Shelby brushes his apology off and tells him it's no big deal.
Auden lies, stalkes and harasses Shelby for the entire book and is rewarded by her kissing him, spending him with him and Shelby almost sleeps with him. The book ends with Shelby being optimistic about seeing him in LA because he's been accept to the film studies program at USC.
Had Shelby actually moved on (like Grace had when she finally told Mike to eff off) the book would have been so much more powerful. Instead it's this sappy goodbye speech about how they aren't right for each other now but maybe later and how she'll always love him and on and on and on.
Other Points of Interest:
Cam, who has a series of problems of his own with consent is the only rational person in the entire book: “....the thought of teenagers being in ‘love’ is a joke to begin with. It’s all hormones at this age.” Amen, Cam. Amen.
I knew from the scene where Grace blanched when Shelby joked about killing someone that that was exactly what had happend (how Grace knew this, I have no idea, since she still thought Auden did it). I kept waiting and waiting for that 'twist' and I felt very unfulfilled when it happened.
I hated that at no point did Shelby ever go see an actual therapist. But we can hook her up to some hypnotism machine and 'erase' her memories no problem.
The book was VERY heavy handed the whole time.
I'm almost out of space to rant. So this is the end.
6 likes
Like
Comment
waffles
67 reviews
February 6, 2024
I don’t even know where to begin.
The first few chapters were fine, I guess. And then I kept on reading and kept on getting more confused. I finished the book- and was still terribly confused, as well as disappointed.
Remember Me Always had promise. It could have been something great. Instead, it was a tight little box of confusion.
Spoilers are ahead.
Ready?
Half the time I couldn’t tell whether what was going on was in real time, the past, or just Shelby’s dreams. The way that time was presented was very messy. Auden was a hallucination but then he wasn’t. Mama was horrible but then she was a good person. Grace was terrified of her ex-boyfriend who existed solely to give her personality some sort of substance (though it was quite weak) and then when he tries to scare her one final time she delivers a speech that sounded like it came straight from the jaws of ChatGPT. Cam is- well, I don’t even know. Honestly, with how bad everything in the book was, I wouldn’t be surprised if he and Shelby had a fling.
Let’s do a little summary of each character.
Shelby: has practically no idea who she is. Her only friend is Grace, who is very similar to a piece of toast because of how bland she is. Why is she even friends with Shelby? What do they have in common? Her ex boyfriend is abusive, fine, but that’s
not
an excuse to emotionally abuse Shelby to make her do what she wants.
Shelby also lacks quite a few things when it comes to the department of smarts. You're telling me this girl is 17 and is surprised that New York has Mexican food? Really? Even before I read that part, I was thinking that she was dumb. Show-not-tells are supposed to be good things in books. Not when the reader starts thinking the character has a kumquat for a brain... and that's not even what their thoughts should be. A swing and a miss here. Was Shelby made to be a little ditzy? Maybe. There's a fine line between ditzy and dumb, though, and Shelby is doing the YMCA on it.
Auden: Hmm. Manipulating piece of shit. (Back to Shelby's kumquat-brain for a second. She saw that her friend's ex boyfriend was abusive but that Auden wasn't? Oh, yes. We forgot the fact that Auden is very,
very
hot. The hair... the eyelashes... there's no way a total hottie like him could be a bad person. So many salsa flags waving in the air. But I guess Mexican food doesn't exist in New York so clearly it doesn't exist wherever Shelby is. We'll just call them red flags. Is that more simple for you to understand, Shelby?)
Back to Auden. Throughout the entire book, he stalks her. And because she's stupid, she bats her eyelashes and goes along with it with a big smile. I mean, come on! If this were a book about a serial killer, Shelby would have been the first victim. When he takes her to places that he swears she remembers she just goes along with it. He could take her to a remote island whilst carrying a hammer and she wouldn't suspect a thing. Because he's so hot and mysterious.
Auden knows nothing about personal space. Shelby has to find out from her mother that he killed a guy, but wait, he didn't kill him, she did. And he saved her because he liked her? Or something? I'm still unsure. So, him stalking her was okay because he saved her from jail? Because he was hot? Or maybe because it wasn't, and stalking people is not attractive in the slightest and usually something that is not found 'cute'? In one scene he is standing outside her house YELLING and the alarm bells in her head are just. Quiet.
Back to character analysis.
Grace: I think Renee knew she needed more characters but ones that could fade into the background easily. Enter Grace. I already talked about her earlier. She's just kinda cringy, so that's all I'm going to put.
Cam: Class clown. He likes Shelby. He kisses her. Without asking, if I may add. Shelby is obviously not okay with this (finally! She grows a backbone for once!) and tells him so. He makes a joke of it. Homegirl set a boundary and he went "haha whatever." Do not date people like this! Guys/girls/nonbinary peeps who make a topic like consent a joke make baaaad partners.
Mostly what pisses me off about Remember Me Always is the lack of time structuring, which I know I already mentioned. It was just all over the place.
There was potential. And then there wasn't.
That's it, folks.
Oh! One more thing! What was the plot? What was the moral of the story? It's okay if partners are manipulative stalkers as long as they're good looking? Don't always listen to your mom?
This is not a guide for how anyone's love life should go. Auden and Shelby's relationship is far from ideal. The way Auden treated Shelby should
not
be normalized!
Okay, I'm done. Peace.
bleh
disappointing
excuse-me-where-was-the-plot
...more
3 likes
Like
Comment
Shruti
5 reviews
4 followers
April 11, 2019
I thought that this book was really good. If you want to read a book about mystery and romance, this is a good book. Remember me always has a very good plot to it, and has very many twists and turns.
3 likes
Like
Comment
Shane
Author
29 books
664 followers
October 17, 2017
I fell in love with Renee's writing in Until We Meet Again, which turned out to be one of my favorite romance novels. So when I saw Remember Me Always I just knew I had to read it, especially after getting pulled in by that blurb.
The story starts off with Shelby returning home after receiving some sort of procedure that wiped away her memory of a terrible accident, along with other things that mattered to her. This is the second time I've read a book surrounding the erasure of bad memories and while I disagree with altering the mind, I'm understanding of this treatment being used on individuals with PTSD, like soldiers or others who have experienced abuse and other traumatic events.
Right away I'd suspected there was more to the accident and to this boy trying to convince Shelby they were in a relationship. Her apprehension to talk to him came off a tad annoying at first but then I started to see things from her perspective, in the sense that she wasn't sure about who to trust since she couldn't recall important details. Once her defenses came down and she realized that her heart refused to deny this guy, I liked how she opened up to the idea of relearning about herself and the intense feelings that came so naturally toward him. The whole thing seemed sort of strange though and I had a lot of questions throughout, but those were all answered as the story progressed even though by the time the truth was revealed I had already figured it out.
In regards to the characters, Shelby was the only one I trusted since she was a blank page who didn't know anything and was pretty much a confused girl desperate for answers. Her "boyfriend", best friend, and even her mother were all hiding things. The latter, mind you, I could not stomach for the majority of the story. I found her rather insensitive at times and very controlling, which was something Shelby struggled with. As for her step-father, I wish he was more present in the story. I would have liked to know his feelings about the whole thing and how he could tolerate being married to Shelby's mother. I kid you not, the woman was a trip. She encouraged her daughter to run away from her problems instead of facing them head-on, and basically pressured Shelby into doing the procedure. The woman even dragged her back when she felt like her daughter just wasn't conforming to her ways. Like seriously, I could hardly stand her scenes.
Aside from that, loved the premise of the story and how Shelby dealt with the situation before and after everything was revealed. And even though I had figured out the truth a tad earlier, it still was an interesting read and I liked how it ended with new beginnings for each character. It left me feeling hopeful for them, yes even for the mother.
Overall, this is another great Renee Collins book. Loved the writing and the perseverance of Shelby's character. She's not perfect but I found her quite likable in spite of what happened. Please do give this one a read if you're curious about the memory erasing thing and most importantly, how powerful love can be. As crazy as it seems, somehow the heart always know even when the mind doesn't remember. So yeah, definitely check this out, especially if you love emotional young adult stories.
contemporary
drama
psychological
...more
2 likes
Like
Comment
Jordan
6 reviews
1 follower
November 7, 2017
I love the premise of this story. A girl who can't remember a relationship with a boy who claims he loves her, and his quest to prove that love. I cannot begin to tell you how much I ship Shelby and Auden. I feel like I fell in love along with Shelby. I do have a bone to pick with Renee for dragging me through the heartache and twists and turns of the last few chapters. I thought I was going to lose my mind in the best way. A beautiful story through and through.
2 likes
Like
Comment
Christy
140 reviews
48 followers
February 11, 2019
Sometimes even when you don't like any of the characters in a book...the book can still end up being fantastic. Not this book though. Nope. Not one bit. It was a bit boring, dragged...a lot, and by the end? I didn't care what the big "Memory" was. I just wanted it to be over. Sorry If That's harsh. I hate writing a bad review for a book, I really do. 😐
2 likes
Like
Comment
Lovisa
91 reviews
40 followers
April 13, 2021
2.5
I can't explain why I disliked this book but I don't like this book either. Basically, the book is about a girl who has some of her memories erased, and this boy tries to tell her that they know each other, while trying to make her remember him, but, honestly, I was just confused the whole time while reading this. Like, there were so many ups and downs in this book that I couldn't keep up with it, but the ending was very simple, except it was so short and wrapped up way too quickly for my liking. Although, I didn't like this, I think maybe others will like this more, I don't have much reason for this but maybe it's because I see why other people could find this entertaining. (Just wanted to say I don't know where this review went, sorry.)
1 like
Like
Comment
Jessica Szabo
8 reviews
23 followers
May 24, 2021
As I first started to read this story I didn't know if I would be able to get through it. I made it halfway through the story but it just felt as if it dragged on and I couldn't get into it. I had heard so much hype about this story and couldn't understand why I couldn't get into it.
I considered giving up on the story but I am so glad that I decided to stick with it. Although it's not one of my favorite stories, I am so happy I kept reading through it.
1 like
Like
Comment
Abigail
295 reviews
2 followers
May 16, 2019
Heavy-handed.
work-books
1 like
Like
Comment
Elizabeth Reid
996 reviews
13 followers
November 8, 2018
Deseret News review here:
https://www.deseretnews.com/article/8...
book-reviews
1 like
Like
Comment
Kathy
3,505 reviews
November 12, 2017
Remember Me Always
by
Renee Collins
is an intriguing young adult novel with an interesting premise and a multi-layered storyline.
Over the summer, Shelby Decatur undergoes a somewhat extreme treatment to erase her memories of a car accident that are causing her severe anxiety, panic attacks and PTSD. Now home, her excitement at beginning her senior year of high school is tempered by an underlying, low-level sense that something is not quite right. Having recently experienced a tantalizing fragment of memory featuring a young man, Shelby does not know what to think when she discovers the teenager from her recollection is real. She is even more stunned to learn that she and the young man, Auden Keplar, were in a two year relationship.  Auden wants to try to resume their romance and although Shelby is drawn to him, his intensity is a little unnerving. Although she cannot remember their romance, Shelby is willing to give him a chance but when she discovers he has been less than truthful with her, will she continue to see him?
Shelby often feels out of step with the rest of her small hometown. She has big dreams of becoming an actress, but her controlling mother is rather forceful with her attempts to dissuade her from leaving town. Shelby is initially very reluctant to trust Auden and in his zeal to convince her to give him a chance, his behavior is uncomfortably close to stalking and obsessive. At Auden’s urging, she keeps their renewed friendship a secret from her mom and her best friend, Grace. Shelby is enthusiastically embracing her resumed relationship with Auden when she learns he has been keeping some very serious secrets from her.
Meanwhile, Shelby is beginning to suffer from nightmares that fill her will an incredible sense of unease. Her anxiety levels are increasing and she is uncertain whom she can trust after her relationship with Auden is discovered by both her mother and Grace. Shelby comes to the realization that she needs to recover the memories that have been erased but will it be possible for her to remember what happened the night of the accident?
Remember Me Always
is an appealing young adult novel with an innovative storyline and well-developed characters. Shelby’s quest to recover her traumatic memories offers her the opportunity to stop running from problems and instead face them head on. Grace’s predicament with an ex-boyfriend is an important demonstration of when a relationship crosses the line into abuse.   While some aspects of the plot are easy to predict,
Renee Collins
brings the novel to a surprising conclusion.
1 like
Like
Comment
reenie
547 reviews
107 followers
November 4, 2018
The short version of how I feel about the book and my review told through emojis: 😍💓😍😻❤️️💞💝💘❣️💕💗💋💟💖😱😱😱🤔😻😱😱😱😱😱😭😭😭
The long version of how I feel about the book and my review told through actual words:
I loved
Until We Meet Again
because it blew my mind and also devastated my emotions, and I fell in love with the cover of Remember Me Always. I was on a reading hiatus for way too long, but this book finally broke my hiatus.
I loved the chemistry between Auden and Shelby. Even though he wasn't technically emotionally abusive, their love was overwhelming. The ending killed my emotions, but I have hope for their relationship because despite it all, they truly care and are in love with each other.
I love that Ms. Renee Collins explored dysfunctional relationships and what an emotionally abusive relationship actually looks like, showing the perspective from the victim in the relationship, not the abuser.
The plot twist at the end blew my mind, but I'm happy with how the whole story came full circle. I'm proud of Shelby for accepting responsibility for the accident. Maybe it's just me, but I absolutely love Auden because he's patient and loving. I'm a sucker for hipster tall, dark, and handsome men. He's definitely not perfect, but I'm willing to overlook some of his flaws for how much he loves Shelby.
Happy Sunday! Hope your day is going well. And if it isn't, I hope that tomorrow or sometime in the near future, it gets better. Because I promise that it will. Maybe not today or tomorrow, but soon.
with love,
Reenie
💋
This entire review has been hidden because of spoilers.
Show full review
best-romance
favorites
1 like
Like
Comment
bri
381 reviews
14 followers
October 11, 2021
this was one of the most over written, pretentious, predictable books ive ever read. however, it was extremely entertaining and i couldn't put it down so?? i think this was SUPPOSED to be a mystery but i predicted the plot twists while i was 15% of the way through... i am interested in reading something else by this author but not in the near future
2018
1 like
Like
Comment
Brie
16 reviews
December 29, 2017
Very few books get five stars from me, but damn this one was close. So beautifully written. Hiding away from past mistakes doesn't mean we won't make the same ones again. Second book I've read this winter break about memory and all I can say is... Its complicated.
1 like
Like
Comment
Jasmin
30 reviews
July 3, 2019
I’ve been debating with myself what to rate this book because I did genuinely enjoy it before the end, and I did like the main character for a while... until I didn’t.
When I was reading this, my music was on shuffle and two songs came up that I thought really represented this book pretty well were The Way I Loved You (OUCH) and More (their desire to leave that small town), both by Selena Gomez.
The plot was genuinely good, but I hate to admit the author isn’t great at character development, let’s start there.
- Characters -
Shelby : Shelby was a forgettable character... honestly, I just read the book. Literally finished it 2 hours ago. And writing this review, I had to sit there silently for a few seconds just to remember her name. Her character was a little annoying at times, and I get that she has been through a lot, but she had a tendency to make everything about her which was demonstrated by her feeling guilty when she spoke to Holly because she made her husband’s death about her, and how she didn’t notice her best friend going through an abusive relationship? I don’t think she noticed it when her mom did either, but correct me if I’m wrong?
She was very hesitant to leave her small town and I get that fear of leaving everything you’ve ever known behind but if she hates it all as much as she says... I mean at least stop complaining about it every second if you have an opportunity to get away from it but you refuse it countless times.
Auden : I loved his character at first. But he did get suspiciously like a mentally abusive boyfriend, what with all the following her around, calling her all the time?? I still ship them, and I don’t think the author meant for him to be an abusive boyfriend so I’m chalking that off to poor writing skills. Also, I love his name. And his name, the way he looks and is described, I can’t help but think of him as a vampire.
Grace : Oh, I hate Grace’s character so much. You know your best friend’s mom erased the guy she loved from her memories, and you hide that from her? Especially when you’ve been best friends since the third grade? I’d ditch this girl so fast. And then when she sees her with Auden, she threatens to call her mom? Wtf? And then she’s all like “He went to jail!”. Yeah. For taking the blame for a murder Shelby committed. And then for most of the book, she’s not even with Shelby because she’s hanging out with her boyfriend. And Shelby was too self centered to be there for Grace when she was going through an abusive relationship. She didn’t even notice. Sounds like a horrible friendship to me.
Shelby’s Mom : In the beginning, she was very horrible and seemed to blame Shelby for her panic attacks and such, and she was very insensitive. She seemed like she didn’t really care about Shelby and saw her as a burden, then she did a complete 360 and became a caring mother? I don’t know man, more poor writing I guess. And telling Shelby Auden went to jail for killing a man? SHELBY KILLED HIM.
Cam : He was pretty funny, and I enjoyed his scenes. They were amusing. I felt really bad for him when Auden got to be Romeo literally the day before the play. Especially when a casting agent came out to watch. I know he was looking for Shelby, but he would have still seen Cam. And the author didn’t even touch on how he felt when his role was taken from him for no reason. He felt kind of just like a filler character, that was annoying. What I didn’t like about his character though, was that he kisser Shelby? For like no reason by the way. It added nothing to the plot, and was annoying how he did that after she told him countless times she didn’t want to be romantically affiliated with him, and literally said she’d break his front teeth if he kissed her, so...
The ending was really unfulfilling and I’m very upset by it. Not upset enough to regret reading it because it was a very fast read and I did genuinely enjoy it a lot of the time, but I really hate the ending. It did leave some kind of room for interpretation though, so I’m choosing to believe she gets back with Auden when she gets to California, but I hate that she broke things off with him after everything he did for her, and since she supposedly loves him so much. But that might be me being a sucker for love can conquer all. Not that there was much to conquer, it literally would have been fine so no, it’s just dumb.
After speaking with Holly, it took Shelby so long to turn herself in, and I found it so stupid that all she had to do was a little bit of community service when Auden got 2 years? She should get more especially because she hid it for so long.
And letting Auden be Romeo, I felt so bad for Cam because even though Auden was better at auditions, he refused the role and it was Cam’s role. No director would just give it to Auden the day before. If you glaze over the fact that Cam deserved the role, which you shouldn’t because why the fuck would you, how is Auden going to perform well with no rehearsals?
But yeah, if the characters were more believable, and well done, and they had ended up together, this would have been a 4.5 star read.
This entire review has been hidden because of spoilers.
Show full review
Like
Comment
Olivia
3,289 reviews
95 followers
September 21, 2017
"Remember Me Always" is a really fascinating and intriguing YA fiction that touches sci-fi and romance. Shelby is getting ready to start her senior year but finds herself recovering from some experimental treatments over the summer which reminded her memories of a terrible accident that had given her PTSD and panic attacks. Although everyone around her knows what happened, Shelby can't remember a thing.
At a repeat treatment, something goes wrong and Shelby sees the face of a boy she doesn't know. Things become more complicated when he shows up in real life. Even though all her other memories should be intact, Shelby feels that there's something missing and no one will tell her what's going on. The strange boy that she almost remembers, Auden, seems to be her only path to figuring out what all she lost.
Trapped in a small town, where her mother seems to want her to stay, Shelby has big dreams of being an actress. However, she is still piecing together all the parts of her life that were torn apart by what happened and what she forgot. It seems as though her mother had them take more than just the accident from her memory- they removed a two year relationship with Auden. With the feeling of "Eternal Sunshine of the Spotless Mind," this book charts the territory of memories and their significance/meaning towards being our full self.
This book was really captivating in the mystery of what actually happened and motives of everyone who has their version of the truth plus the overarching theme of the value of memory- even when it is painful. It was a really fast read and hard to put down! I absolutely had to read to the end to figure out what and why Shelby forgot. The ending was really fantastic too. As all the truths unravel for her, there were so many ways it could go. I think the ending chosen was absolutely the best possible. It's really well written and fantastically well done. I highly recommend it!
Please note that I received an ARC from the publisher though netgalley. All opinions are my own.
netgalley-reviews
Like
Comment
Andrea
1,278 reviews
July 2, 2022
This is a wonderfully loving, tragic, mysterious and heartwarming story until it falls apart. The mystery of what happened to cause Shelby to lose her memories, who the boy with the dark eyes is, why her best friend and mother seem to have something to hide, and the entire issue of her deep love of acting, came together to keep me interested and waiting to see what kind of surprise was just around the corner. I fell in love with Auden from the moment he appeared on the scene. Shelby had visions of him, and he had evaded the erasure of her memories in the clinic, and now he has to convince her that they were once very much in love. The story isn't straightforward, and it takes a bit to follow the thread, but it's a complicated plot with multiple characters that are thoroughly developed. I began to lose faith in Shelby when her memories came back in full. On the one hand, she was so comforting and kind in her confession to the widow, but she was too cold, calculating and off-putting with the people who loved her the most. The way she cut Auden off at the knees was cruel and selfish. After she left him, Auden made a name for himself in the theater arts and was headed to school in California. After graduation, Shelby was headed to California to meet with the agent she met after her performance of Romeo and Juliet and then the story just ended. Would this real-life Romeo and Juliet find each other again or did Shelby break them apart for good when she had to go "find herself?" I feel cheated out of an ending, let alone a satisfactory ending. It just faded away. Before the last 3-4 chapters of the story, it was magnificent. It fell apart quickly and lost its focus with Shelby's insistence on leaving her old life behind. The epilogue was more like a funeral for the love of Auden and Shelby. She had no desire to see him again. Que sera, sera.
The narration was very well done by Jessica Almasy. I would like to have heard a little more separation among the characters, particularly between male and female. Overall, it was excellent!
Like
Comment
Mineliz Febus
46 reviews
1 follower
October 10, 2017
Shelby wants to live a normal life. She looks forward to her senior year in high school, where she plans to develop her acting skills. She longs to leave her past behind, to obliterate the memories that trigger her anxiety and PTSD, which she succeeds through centralized treatments. Everything is fine for a while, until she meets Auden Keplar. He looks familiar, sounds familiar, everything about him screams deja vu. He is the guy that lurks within the dark recesses of her mind, and emotions intensify when she discovers that she and Auden had dated for two years. The more Shelby spends time with Auden, the more uneasy she becomes.
His behavior, his darkness, his possessiveness…
Something’s not right about him.
Shelby will have to do the one thing she’s avoided since returning to her hometown: she must remember everything.
Remember Me Always is a complex, multi-layered story that builds up with every passing page. Shelby is an unreliable heroine, and you experience her inability to come to grips with reality, and how it all unravels before her eyes.
“A familiar feeling surfaces inside of me. A tightness in my throat. A pulse in my temples. The early twinges of a panic attack. I can’t go through this again. Not now.”
This is a psychological thriller similar to E. Lockhart, Kara Thomas or Paula Stokes. For adult readers, this novel will resonate with Paula Hawkins and Ruth Ware. The narrative is gripping and the characters are relatable. However, the ending is disappointingly predictable. Psychological thrillers should keep you guessing long after the story is over. You don’t have to tie the story up with a neat bow — always leave room for nuances and possibilities. I give it three and a half out of five lattes. Recommended to those with a penchant for dark, twisty reads.
Like
Comment
Michelle Sedeño
262 reviews
81 followers
November 10, 2017
WIN A COPY OF REMEMBER ME ALWAYS!
https://t.co/q4Y7bu8h6e
~
Originally reviewed on the
blog.
***
Shelby has been on a car accident. To stop the panic attacks, her mother enrolled her in a clinical program which also erased her memory of the accident. Upon returning home and back to school, she can't help but feel strange - as if there's some piece missing - especially when she met the boy who she thought was only a hallucination.
I could say that this is the first book I've read with this kind of story. However, I am not completely new with the amnesia kind of thing. It reminds me of one of the local TV series that I liked, Got to Believe. Snippets of Chichay enter my mind when she remade her past with Joaquin when I read the part when Auden, the mysterious boy Shelby met, makes an effort remember their past and to remember him. It was a bittersweet scene for both of the stories and it's sad to know someone you love has forgotten you, literally.
Before reading this book, though, my mind has been prepared for one thing: predictability. From the title, synopsis, and book cover, I have already know what might happen or who she might have been forgotten. And it did happen. Most scenes has me feeling cliche too. Perhaps I have read too much contemporary YA and have been graduated from that teen romance stage that I feel like their relationship was shallow and the book lacking.
Good thing there's something unexpected happened. An unseen twist in the end that brought excitement. And how I missed that feeling! That pound in my heart as I unravel the mystery. Though some parts felt liked rushed and too perfect for the given situation, I still liked that the author left something for the readers to wonder as the story ends. I also picked up something from the book.
"None of us know what's going to happen tomorrow. All we have is today. We have choices to make. There's enough pain and injustice in the world to make someone angry or sad their entire lives if they let it."
"Every day is a choice. It's not just about what we do and where we end up but the emotions we embrace in our hearts."
I hope you'll enjoy Remember Me Always if you decide to read it!
Like
Comment
Maddie
1 review
February 18, 2020
I picked "remember me always" because I could relate to the main character. She was very compelling about her story and when I read the back of the cover I really wanted to know what kept happening.
Some of the aspects I liked about the book is that it was very detailed, it almost made you feel like you were living the situation itself. It had a detailed description so that you could keep guessing what happened next but it was a total plot twist. The mood of the book was realistic and very surreal. The main character describes her experience of going through memory erasing through therapy, but yet she doesn't even remember asking for it. All of the aspects that come with it are so interesting and so captivating. The author develops the mood so well that it seems that it happened to you while reading the book. The suspense of the next event kept me reading the book and guessing or trying to solve what was wrong with the girls life. My favorite part at the end is how the author turns it into a life lesson in the end, to not run away from your problems and that focusing on the past isn't going to help the future.
Some problems I had with the book is that the small events that kept happening to the character were kind of repetitive and almost described the same. Also some of the in between events weren't really relevant to the reader. Certain characters needed more description throughout the story and how they affected the main characters life. I do recommend this book to others that like love stories and science fiction. My book did live up to my expectation and I honestly did not think it was going to be that good all the way throughout. I thought I would get bored at one point but never did. My final thoughts are that it is a very very good book and even I don't ever read books, and I couldn't put it down. I would give it a 5 out of 5 stars.
Like
Comment
Andi ♡
292 reviews
7 followers
February 2, 2023
Shelby spends the summer in neurological therapy to get rid of her panic attacks and as an added bonus they make her forget about a terrible accident that triggered said anxiety. During one of her image therapy sessions, she sees something different: a boy who seems eerily familiar. She doesn’t know who he is but she’s determined to find out.
She finds him-Auden. Auden swears that he and Shelby were a couple before the accident, but she can’t remember him, no matter how hard she tries. Auden promises to prove it to her and reluctantly, she agrees to give him a chance.
Everyone is keeping secrets from Shelby, even her best friend, Grace and they all think they know what’s best for her. When Shelby demands answers, it may not be what she wants to hear.
Grace isn’t any better than the rest of the characters in this book. She straight up lies to her best friend because apparently that’s what was good for her, however she doesn’t make any sense. All in one breath she’s telling Shelby to stay away from Auden and to ask him what’s going on?? Ummmm…
Auden gives me the creeps and doesn’t come off as swoon worthy as I think the author was going for in the beginning. I think this was actually made worse by the narrator from the audiobook. I hated her Auden voice lol and I had to listen to this at like 1.8x speed in order to make it bearable. 😳
It really bothers me that she calls her mum mama for some reason and I can’t get over it. 🤣 Her mom is also a soft reincarnation of Mommie Dearest.
All in all, this wasn’t terrible, but wasn’t great. The twist at the end wasn’t really a twist since I saw it coming a mile away. However, the almost ending was still the best part. This is my fault, but it probably would have been better if I read it instead of listened. I may try reading this again, but I think I’m scarred.
owned
Like
Comment
Kristin Downer
449 reviews
13 followers
October 9, 2017
ORIGINAL POST:
http://www.nerdprobs.com/books/book-r...
**A copy of this book was provided by the publisher via NetGalley in exchange for an honest review.**
Imagine a treatment that would completely cure PTSD. No more panic attacks. No more breakdowns. Seems crazy, right? Renee Collins has created a story where that treatment is real and can be used to erase negative memories that trigger PTSD like symptoms. Intrigued? I was! I wanted to know how this treatment helped the lead character Shelby ... or messed her life up. Shelby is a normal teenager that went through a horrible situation and was struggling after. After under going treatment she feels better, but in some ways she feels like part of her is missing.
I loved Collins' way of writing that made me feel anxious when Shelby was anxious. I connected so well with Shelby that it drew me into how she was feeling. An author who is able to do that is a great writer. Every time I thought I knew what was coming next the story would take a turn and I'd be back to guessing. This kept me on my toes and guessing the whole way. Page by page the story built with flashes to back story and little puzzle pieces slowly coming together. Collins balanced the build of this story well to be perfectly paced from beginning to end. I never guessed the ending, which is a large bonus for my love and rating of a mystery/thriller novel and it didn't come off as unbelievable.
Collins put together a fine piece of work with Remember Me Always. Well built characters with full and interesting back stories and a story that will keep you flipping pages until the very end. A true page turner. This book is good for all ages. I'll be picking up the next book by Renee Collins!
provided-by-netgalley-reviews
Like
Comment
Addison Burstein
10 reviews
40 followers
February 8, 2022
This book, while engaging, has few healthy relationships. Shelby's mother is controlling and doesn't let her live her own life. Everyday her mother pressures her to agree to a memory erasing procedure until one day she just gives in. Her best friend lied to her and with held important information that Shelby deserved to know. Grace, as well as her mother, constantly discourage her from perusing the career choice that Shelby wants. Her relationship with Auden was the worst. He pressured her into making life changing decisions by saying if she doesn't agree she doesn't love him. They fight all of the time, and when asked to giver her space, he proceeds to run after her car. He stalked her several times, and repeatedly broke his restraining order. Every aspect of that relationship was unhealthy. Cam also tried to get more from his relationship with Shelby than was permitted. Despite having broken up with her, and her making is very clear she does not like him like that or want him to kiss her, after a good night at a school dance, he kisses her. Shelby's relationship with everyone, except Mr. Lyman was unhealthy. Mr. Lyman was the only character in the book who did not pressure her into anything, lie to her, and he encouraged her to do what she loved. There were engaging plot twists, but these do not make up for the lack of character development, and a lack of communication across the board.
This entire review has been hidden because of spoilers.
Show full review
Like
Comment
Nicole
163 reviews
2 followers
October 18, 2017
This was the perfect read for me. After finishing Mary Shelley's Frankenstein I was looking for something modern and a little less heavy. A good YA romance was just the ticket.
"Remember Me Always" fits in the YA romance genre perfectly, but it still has a uniqueness in the plot. The idea of technology that can erase traumatic memories was interesting and believable in the presentation. I was drawn in immediately by the mystery surrounding the need for the memory treatment as well as by the intrigue of how it was all going to work out. The writing is easy to read and follow, but with engaging character voice and smart use of language and sentence structure.
I would say that the ending doesn't fit a traditional "happily ever after" format, but I appreciated it. I was glad to see characters acknowledge their young age and how that should be considered along with feelings of love or passion.
The author lives in a town where I lived for about 4 years and I loved seeing bits and pieces of the town show up in the book's fictional setting. There were names of people and streets that I recognized. Some of the descriptions of fictional Orchardview brought to mind so clearly places in the real Colorado town.
The book drew me in quickly and was entertaining all the way through to the end.
See more of my reviews at thereaderssalon.com
Like
Comment
Holly DeSalle
7 reviews
December 8, 2017
Remember Me Always is one of the best books that I have read in a while. Let me just tell you, I'm shook. That car accident! What? What! WHAT?! Now that my burst of emotion as left me, let me tell you why this book is amazing. The author of Remember Me Always does amazing job throughout the entire book of keeping the reader on their toes and changing the plot over and over again. I can't tell you how many times I thought, "Yeah, I understand what's happening." But then two pages later I would say, "What just happened?!?!" Also, the love romance thing in the book got me good. I have always been a fan of love stories, but this story line was on a whole different level. I don't understand how something can go from being so pure and good to being so wrong. This probably due to all of the previously discusses plot twists in the book.I was emotional wreck by the end of the book, but it was a good kind of emotional breakdown. I would gladly go through it all again. All in all, Remember Me Always was an amazing read and I would recommend it to anyone who likes to be kept on their toes. And everyone that likes to be emotional devastated and confused. After reading the reading the book, it is very clear that I like reading books like that.
This entire review has been hidden because of spoilers.
Show full review
Like
Comment
TheNextGenLibrarian
2,279 reviews
32 followers
October 1, 2021
Her mind may forget, but her heart remembers.
📷
Shelby’s been lying to people saying she was away for the summer doing physical rehab after a devastating car accident, but really she was undergoing intensive treatment to erase the memory of the car accident. Now she’s back for senior year, but something seems off. It’s not until a boy named Auden approaches her saying they used to be in love for two years. Why can’t she remember him? Why did the doctor take Auden from her memories? As Shelby tries to put the pieces back together on the events that occurred her junior year, she’s forced to face the fact that everyone has their own motives for wanting her to forget. The only person who can bring her memories back, is her.
🎭
This YA book has set on my shelf in my middle school library and I’ve always been intrigued by it. The premise is different and the mystery & romance sucked me right in. I was pulled in from the beginning. It lagged a little in the middle and I wondered if that was all and then the twist in the end brought me right back. I’ll be recommending this to students who loved When by Victoria Laurie and Forget Me by KA Harrington.
CW: death, car accident, memory altering, emotionally abuse relationship
3.75 ⭐️
Like
Comment
HoneyBunny
23 reviews
October 27, 2017
Shelby lives a seemingly normal life, hanging out with her hot best friend and dealing with an annoying mother. But a dark cloud constantly hangs over her and that dark cloud is her memory. Her memory of a bad accident has been erased but as the story progresses Shelby realizes the world around her isn’t what it seems. Shelby remembers a mysterious stranger.. and then he really does turn up.
But nothing is what it seems..
Her best friend can’t tell her the truth.
Neither can her mother.
Or the boy she’s in love with.
The truth lies within herself but is she ready to face it?
I gave this story 4 stars because I pretty much didn’t like the characters. Grace, Auden and Mama. Maybe they were trying to protect her but Grace is too busy with a new boy toy to care, Mama has psychological issues probably and doesn’t appear fit to be a mother, Auden is hiding too much and manipulated her. In trying to help her, they were causing further damage.
This was well written, fascinating and I read it in one sitting unable to stop.
It’s the first time I’ve read a book by this author and I’m so impressed.
This entire review has been hidden because of spoilers.
Show full review
Like
Comment
Displaying 1 - 30 of 171 reviews
More reviews and ratings
Join the discussion
10
quotes
1
discussion
4
questions
Can't find what you're looking for?
Get help and learn more about the design.
Help center
Company
About us
Careers
Terms
Privacy
Interest Based Ads
Ad Preferences
Help
Work With Us
Authors
Advertise
Authors & ads blog
API
Connect
©
2024
Goodreads, Inc.
