Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 6.0.8'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://sampigekannadabalaga.org/wp-content/uploads/2017/03/Sampige_Favicoon-1.png'}

Body Text:
ಸಂಪಿಗೆ – Sampige Triangle Kannada Association
Skip to content
Sampige is a 501(3)(c) tax-exempt registered non-profit association.
facebook
youtube
Home
Membership
donate
Sponsorship Form
KANNADA KALI
About US
ಸಂಪಿಗೆ  ನಡೆದು  ಬಂದ   ದಾರಿ
Constitution
Volunteer Registration
Programs
Guidelines
Program Registration
Upcoming Event
Library
ಕವನಗಳು
ವಚನಗಳು
Kannada Web
Gallery
Sampige EC Team-2024
Sampige EC-2024 Team
Sampige EC – 2024
As members of the 2024 Executive Committee, we look forward to serving the Kannada community in the Triangle area by…
2024 News Updates
Sampige EC Team-2024
Sampige EC-2024 Team
Sampige EC – 2024
As members of the 2024 Executive Committee, we look forward...
Sampige Membership Options
Family Membership
Sampige values your membership. It gives you a sense of belonging and shows your commitment and support to Sampige, Kannada and Karnataka. It also pays towards all the programs and activities that you and your family enjoys. If you are not already a member of Sampige, please consider becoming one. You may complete by this
Membership Form
. Sampige also uses PayPal to accept donations online. You do not need to have a PayPal account. You can simply use one of the major credit cards to make your donation. There will be a $1.00 processing fee added for all online transactions.
BECOME A MEMBER
Single Membership
Sampige values your membership. It gives you a sense of belonging and shows your commitment and support to Sampige, Kannada and Karnataka. It also pays towards all the programs and activities that you and your family enjoys. If you are not already a member of Sampige, please consider becoming one. You may complete by this
Membership Form
. Sampige also uses PayPal to accept donations online. You do not need to have a PayPal account. You can simply use one of the major credit cards to make your donation. There will be a $1.00 processing fee added for all online transactions.
BECOME A MEMBER
Student Membership
Sampige values your membership. It gives you a sense of belonging and shows your commitment and support to Sampige, Kannada and Karnataka. It also pays towards all the programs and activities that you and your family enjoys. If you are not already a member of Sampige, please consider becoming one. You may complete by this
Membership Form
. Sampige also uses PayPal to accept donations online. You do not need to have a PayPal account. You can simply use one of the major credit cards to make your donation. There will be a $1.00 processing fee added for all online transactions.
BECOME A MEMBER
Sampige Previous Team
Responsive WordPress Image Scroller
Sponsorship
Become a Sampige Sponsor … ?
To Become a Sponsor of Sampige Triangle Association Please click here to fill the form
Click Here
Proud supporters of Sampige
SPONSORS
Platinum Plus Sponsors
Responsive WordPress Image Scroller
Platinum Sponsors
Responsive WordPress Image Scroller
Diamond Sponsors
Responsive WordPress Image Scroller
Gold Sponsors
Responsive WordPress Image Scroller
ಪ್ರೀತಿಯ ಸಂಪಿಗೆ ಬಾಂಧವರಿಗೆ ಸ್ವಾಗತ ಸುಸ್ವಾಗತ
Sampige Triangle Kannada Association
About Sampige
Sampige is a 501(3)(c) tax-exempt registered non-profit association for the people who are originally from Karnataka, a state in South...
Sampige Committee
Sampige is a 501(3)(c) tax-exempt registered non-profit association for the people who are originally from Karnataka, a state in South...
Sampige Library
Welcome to Sampige Kannada Library. Here you can find our catlog, availability, reserve books to borrow, make suggestions and contact the...
Social Media Links
Email Address:
[email protected]
Subscribe to Sampige Newsletter
Email address:
Leave this field empty if you're human:
Copyright 2022 Sampige. All rights reserved.
