Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Sigma Gamma Rho Home page - Photo Gallery - Testimonials - Notable Sigmas'}

Body Text:
Sigma Gamma Rho Home page - Photo Gallery - Testimonials - Notable Sigmas
Skip to main content
Toggle navigation
Member Portal
JOIN SIGMA
Find a Chapter
Just Report It!
Sigma Gamma Rho
Sorority Incorporated
Sigma Gamma Rho is a national collegiate sorority incorporated in 1922. Over the years, Sigma Gamma Rho has served as a home for thousands of collegiate and professional women looking for a place to share inspiring life experiences, learn new things, conquer life challenges, thrive in society, and uplift the community through sisterhood, scholarship, and service. The dynamic women of Sigma Gamma Rho have built and sustained a well-known and highly respected reputation for leading positive change. We currently have more than 500 chapters in the United States, U.S. Virgin Islands, Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada, Germany, South Korea and the United Arab Emirates.
Learn More
100 Years Anniversary
Join us today for a celebration of 100 years of Sigma Gamma Rho! Click below to learn more about Centennial.
Our Centennial Plan
Our Sisterhood
Promise
Sigma Gamma Rho values the contributions of all members and affiliates. While we welcome friendly sorority challenges, we embrace different perspectives, opinions, and pool our imagination and resources to compete
with
each other not
against
each other. As a strong sisterhood, we support one another to ensure that each member of the Sigma family is able to reach her full potential in any endeavor. Sigma Gamma Rho is devoted to empowering women at different stages of life.
Photo Gallery
Greater Service
Greater Progress
Sigma Gamma Rho’s commitment to service is expressed in its slogan, “Greater Service, Greater Progress.” We have a proud history of providing positive and proactive community outreach. Sigma Gamma Rho enhances the quality of life for women and their families in the U.S. and globally. Over 500 chapters in the U.S and abroad openly welcome women aspiring to advance sisterhood, scholarship, and service.
Testimonials
Hear From Our Members
Donna Fortenberry
“Joining Sigma Gamma Rho was a life enhancing decision, contributing to professional growth and personal network expansion while advocating for my community with my sisters!”
Taylor Sligh
“The genuine compassion that I felt each Soror had for me as an individual was what really drew me to the organization. I love that I’m able to grow as a person, surrounded by dependable women who I know have my back and my best interests at heart, offer unconditional love, and inspire me.”
Te’lor Allen
“During my experience in Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority, Inc. I have been blessed with life enhancing opportunities. Within my chapter, I have been surrounded by supportive, goal driven women who encourage me to achieve my goals. I have been mentored in many aspects and have been uplifted by our sisterhood to continue reaching for the stars.”
Aliya Cannon
“Sigma has shown me everything I want to exemplify as a woman. From the leadership, Grace, and Strength to the heart, compassion, and wisdom. There is nothing like being A Sigma woman and It is an honor to be just that!”
Angela Bullock
“Since joining the sorority at 18, I have grown up immersed in sisterhood, guidance, and love that has positively shaped me into the person I am today. “
Tamala Bullard
“Being a part of Sigma Gamma Rho has meant for me the opportunity to Grow in Wisdom, Enhance my Leadership Skills, and Create Lasting Relationships!”
Trina Johnson
“For me, it is THE gold standard of sisterhoods. I am an infinitely better woman for joining at the alumni level when my commitment to service was significantly more pronounced. Since joining, I’ve immersed myself in local leadership and assisting my sisters wherever needed on the regional and national level. I love my SGRHO!”
Kolby Robinson
“Being a member is to be enlightened. I am enlightened daily on opportunities to impact change and can enlighten others on our mission.”
Latisha Brandon
“Being a member of Sigma Gamma Rho has made an immeasurable impact on my life – it’s helped me grow personally, philanthropically and professionally; and has helped me understand my life’s purpose.”
Secenario Jones
“I joined Sigma because I was inspired by the women on campus choosing to be different, striving to live a life of purpose, and true sisterhood.”
Lead Grow and Connect
Opportunities
Sigma Gamma Rho is committed to being a life-changing element in the growth of women and girls. The programs, partnerships, and scholarships represent Sigma Gamma Rho’s commitment to investing in its members’ education, leadership development, and success.
LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT
Sigma Gamma Rho has a diverse range of leadership development programs to empower and encourage women to seek leadership positions. Additionally, we encourage collegiate chapters and members to take advantage of student organization leadership training opportunities provided by their institutions.
BECOME AN AGENT OF CHANGE
As a member of Sigma Gamma Rho, you have an unmatched opportunity to learn valuable skills to lead positive changes in your community through sisterhood and service
The Sigma Way
Sigma Gamma Rho is notable for its drive to make society better through sisterhood and empowerment. We offer valuable efforts and programs to achieve greater progress in the areas of education, health awareness, and leadership development. We make a difference by promoting the greater good among women and supporting initiates who align with our vision.
WOMEN’S WELLNESS INITIATIVES
The Women’s Wellness initiative
is a consolidated effort that provides attention to health issues that impact women, specifically women of color.  We address issues such as Breast Cancer Awareness, Heart Health, and Mental Health, amongst others.
PROJECT CRADLE CARE
Project Cradle Care
is a Prenatal Health Program that seeks to improve pregnancy outcomes in high-risk communities by increasing the number of women of childbearing age who receive adequate prenatal education and care.
OPERATION BIGBOOKBAG
Operation Bigbookbag
is a program designed to address the needs, challenges and issues that face school-aged children who are educationally at-risk, in local homeless shelters and extended-care hospitals and facilities.
Learn More
Already a member of Sigma Gamma Rho?
Register for events, access resources, reactivate membership
and more by logging in!
Member Login
Sigmas in the News
SistersUnited4Reform Issues an Open Letter to Senator Kamala Harris
Long Term Partnership In The Fight Against Breast Cancer
98 Trailblazing Years Of Sisterhood, Scholarship And Service
SistersUnited4Reform Issues an Open Letter to Georgia Citizens
All News
Notable Sigmas
notable sigmas
Soror Robin Kelly
US Congresswoman
Soror Robin Kelly is a United States Congresswoman and politician from the state of Illinois. A Ph.D. graduate in political science from Northern Illinois University, Kelly has served as the U.S. Representative from Illinois’s 2nd congressional district since 2013. She served in the Illinois House of Representatives from 2003 to 2007 and Chief of staff for Illinois State Treasurer from 2007 to 2010.
notable sigmas
Soror Nina Turner
Former Ohio State Senator
Soror Nina Hudson Turner is an American politician, professor and former State Senator from Ohio. She is a motivational speaker, cable news commentator and defining political icon. She was a Cleveland City Councilor from 2006 to 2008 and an Ohio State Senator from 2008 until 2014 as a member of the Democratic Party.
notable sigmas
Soror Audrey Jones
Two-Time Emmy Award-Winning Senior Producer of The View.
Soror Audrey Jones is a two-time Emmy Award-winning senior producer of
The View
on ABC. Her excellent work in the television industry paved the way for her to win a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding Talk Show in 2003 and nominations for the same award several times.
notable sigmas
Soror Hattie McDaniel
First African American to Win an Oscar
Soror Hattie McDaniel was an American actress, singer, songwriter and comedian. In 1939, she won an Academy Award for the Best Supporting Actress for her role as “Mammy” in
Gone with the Wind
, making her the first African American to win an (Oscar).
notable sigmas
Soror MC Lyte
Grammy–Nominated American Rapper, DJ, Actress and Entrepreneur
Soror Lana Michelle Moorer (AKA MC Lyte) is a ground-breaking, Grammy–nominated American rapper, DJ, actress and entrepreneur. One of the very first commercially successful female Hip Hop artists, Moorer has been ranked as one of the 50 Most Influential Hip Hop Artists of All Time by About.com. Not only is she known for her impressive musical catalogue, MC Lyte is also known as one of the most recognizable voice over artists in the entertainment industry today.
notable sigmas
Soror Tressie McMillan Cottom
Sociologist, Writer, Public Scholar and 2020 MacArthur Fellow.
Soror Dr. Tressie McMillian Cottom is a sociologist, writer and public scholar. She has authored several books including
Lower Ed: The Troubling Rise of For-Profit Colleges in the New Economy and Thick: And Other Essays.
Recognized as an academic expert in inequality and American higher education, Soror McMillan Cottom became a recipient of the prestigious MacArthur Genius Grant in 2020 and has been featured frequently in print and television media including
The Daily Show
and
MSNBC
.
notable sigmas
Soror Beverly Jenkins
Author
Soror Beverly Jenkins is the recipient of the 2017 Romance Writers of America Nora Roberts Lifetime Achievement Award and the 2016 Romantic Times Reviewers’ Choice Award for historical romance. She has been nominated for the NAACP Image Award in Literature and was featured in the documentary “Love Between the Covers” and on CBS Sunday Morning.
notable sigmas
Soror April Sinclair
Author
Soror April Sinclair is an Oakland-based best-selling author known for her books about young black women coming of age. Sinclair was born in Illinois and grew up on Chicago’s South Side, where several books are set. She is best known as the author of the novels Coffee Will Make You Black, I Left My Back Door Open: A Novel, and Ain’t Gonna Be the Same Fool Twice.
notable sigmas
Soror Michele Hoskins
Business Woman
Soror Michele Hoskins is the owner and founder of Michele Foods, Inc. This multi-million dollar company produces Honey Crème Syrup, Butter Pecan Syrup, and Maple Crème Syrup and other fine food products. Her products are sold in 8,000 stores, including the top major retail chains in the United States.
notable sigmas
Soror Kelly Price
Six-time Grammy-Nominated R&B Singer, Songwriter
Soror Kelly Price is a six-time Grammy-nominated American R&B singer, songwriter, and television personality. Best known for her work as a Def Soul Artist, Price has had a solid career working with R & B and Hip legends, and more recently, a judge on BET’s
Sunday’s Best
. She is also known for her work as a Breast Cancer Awareness activist.
notable sigmas
Soror Martha Reeves
Motown Lead Singer of Martha Reeves and the Vandellas, Former Politician
Soror Martha Reeves is an American lead singer of the Motown girl group Martha Reeves and the Vandellas. Their song “Dancing in the Street” is often described as a political statement; a sign of America’s mid-60s uprising that was driven by inequality and the fight for civil rights. Reeves also served as an elected councilwoman for the City of Detroit.
notable sigmas
Soror Deshauna Barber
United States Army Reserve Captain, Former Miss USA and Motivational Speaker
Soror DeShauna Barber is a United States Army Reserve Captain, former Miss USA and a motivational speaker. In 2016, Soror Barber was the first soldier to win the prestigious title of Miss USA. She also represented the USA at Miss Universe 2016 in Manila where she was among the top nine finalists.
notable sigmas
Soror Donna Orender
Former WNBA President
Soror Donna Geils Orender is a sports executive and former collegiate and professional basketball player. She was formerly president of WNBA. Donna, the CEO of Orender Unlimited, is a recognized business leader, trailblazer, game-changer, and executive.
notable sigmas
Soror Hydeia Broadbent
HIV/AIDS Activist and Motivational Speaker
Soror Hydeia Broadbent has dedicated her life speaking out about HIV/AIDS and its prevention. As a child, she appeared on the Oprah Winfrey Show to share her story as one of the first generation of children born HIV positive. Since then, she has become one of the most prominent HIV/AIDS activists and motivational speakers who has received many awards and accolades for her efforts, including the “Community Activist Award,” which she received from the Bounce television network in 2019.
notable sigmas
Soror Maritza McClendon
Olympic Athlete and Medalist
Soror Maritza Correia, also known by her married name Maritza McClendon, is the first African American female to win Olympic medals in swimming. A former member of the award winning University of Georgia swim team, Soror McClendon became the first African American to be a member of the U.S. Olympic swimming team in 2004, and was inducted into the Georgia Aquatics Hall of Fame in 2014.
notable sigmas
Soror Carmelita Jeter
Three-Time Olympic Medalist Dubbed “The Fastest Woman Alive”
Soror Carmelita Jeter, once tabbed the “Fastest Woman Alive,” is a retired American sprinter who specialized in the 100 meters. She was the 2011 IAAF World Champion in the 100 m and a three-time Olympic medalist. She also won a second World Championship bronze.
Contact Us
P O Box 27688 Raleigh, NC 27611
Office: (919) 678-9720
Fax: (919) 678-9721
[email protected]
Data Sharing Policy
Cookie Consent Protocol
Privacy Policy
Copyright ©2020 All rights reserved | Sigma Gamma Rho Sorority, Inc.
{1}
##LOC[OK]##
{1}
##LOC[OK]##
##LOC[Cancel]##
{1}
##LOC[OK]##
##LOC[Cancel]##
