Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://biblehub.com/visuals/15/46_1Co_04_01.jpg'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': '1 Corinthians 4:1 - Servants of Christ'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Bible Hub'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'So then, men ought to regard us as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.'}

Body Text:
1 Corinthians 4:1 So then, men ought to regard us as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
Bible
>
1 Corinthians
>
Chapter 4
> Verse 1
◄
1 Corinthians 4:1
►
Audio
Crossref
Comment
Greek
Verse
(Click for Chapter)
New International Version
This, then, is how you ought to regard us: as servants of Christ and as those entrusted with the mysteries God has revealed.
New Living Translation
So look at Apollos and me as mere servants of Christ who have been put in charge of explaining God’s mysteries.
English Standard Version
This is how one should regard us, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
Berean Standard Bible
So then, men ought to regard us as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
Berean Literal Bible
So let a man regard us as servants of Christ and stewards of God's mysteries.
King James Bible
Let a man so account of us, as of the ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
New King James Version
Let a man so consider us, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
New American Standard Bible
This is the way
any
person is to regard us: as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
NASB 1995
Let a man regard us in this manner, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
NASB 1977
Let a man regard us in this manner, as servants of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
Legacy Standard Bible
Let a man consider us in this manner, as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
Amplified Bible
So then, let us [who minister] be regarded as servants of Christ and stewards (trustees, administrators) of the mysteries of God [that He chooses to reveal].
Christian Standard Bible
A person should think of us in this way: as servants of Christ and managers of the mysteries of God.
Holman Christian Standard Bible
A person should consider us in this way: as servants of Christ and managers of God’s mysteries.
American Standard Version
Let a man so account of us, as of ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
Aramaic Bible in Plain English
In this way, let us be esteemed by you as Ministers of The Messiah and the stewards of the mysteries of God.
Contemporary English Version
Think of us as servants of Christ who have been given the work of explaining God's mysterious ways.
Douay-Rheims Bible
LET a man so account of us as of the ministers of Christ, and the dispensers of the mysteries of God.
English Revised Version
Let a man so account of us, as of ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
GOD'S WORD® Translation
People should think of us as servants of Christ and managers who are entrusted with God's mysteries.
Good News Translation
You should think of us as Christ's servants, who have been put in charge of God's secret truths.
International Standard Version
Think of us as servants of the Messiah and as servant managers entrusted with God's secrets.
Literal Standard Version
Let a man so reckon us as officers of Christ, and stewards of the secrets of God,
Majority Standard Bible
So then, men ought to regard us as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
New American Bible
Thus should one regard us: as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
NET Bible
One should think about us this way--as servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God.
New Revised Standard Version
Think of us in this way, as servants of Christ and stewards of God’s mysteries.
New Heart English Bible
So a person should consider us as Christ's servants, and stewards of God's mysteries.
Webster's Bible Translation
Let a man so account of us, as of the ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
Weymouth New Testament
As for us Apostles, let any one take this view of us--we are Christ's officers, and stewards of God's secret truths.
World English Bible
So let a man think of us as Christ’s servants and stewards of God’s mysteries.
Young's Literal Translation
Let a man so reckon us as officers of Christ, and stewards of the secrets of God,
Additional Translations ...
Audio Bible
Context
Servants of Christ
1
So then,
men
ought to regard
us
as
servants
of Christ
and
stewards
of the mysteries
of God.
2
Now it is required of stewards that they be found faithful.…
Berean Standard Bible
·
Download
Cross References
Luke 1:2
just as they were handed down to us by the initial eyewitnesses and servants of the word.
Romans 11:25
I do not want you to be ignorant of this mystery, brothers, so that you will not be conceited: A hardening in part has come to Israel, until the full number of the Gentiles has come in.
Romans 16:25
Now to Him who is able to strengthen you by my gospel and by the proclamation of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery concealed for ages past
1 Corinthians 4:2
Now it is required of stewards that they be found faithful.
1 Corinthians 9:17
If my preaching is voluntary, I have a reward. But if it is not voluntary, I am still entrusted with a responsibility.
Titus 1:7
As God's steward, an overseer must be above reproach--not self-absorbed, not quick-tempered, not given to drunkenness, not violent, not greedy for money.
1 Peter 4:10
As good stewards of the manifold grace of God, each of you should use whatever gift he has received to serve one another.
Treasury of Scripture
Let a man so account of us, as of the ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.
account.
1 Corinthians 4:13
Being defamed, we intreat: we are made as the filth of the world,
and are
the offscouring of all things unto this day.
2 Corinthians 12:6
For though I would desire to glory, I shall not be a fool; for I will say the truth: but
now
I forbear, lest any man should think of me above that which he seeth me
to be
, or
that
he heareth of me.
the ministers.
1 Corinthians 3:5
Who then is Paul, and who
is
Apollos, but ministers by whom ye believed, even as the Lord gave to every man?
1 Corinthians 9:16-18
For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of: for necessity is laid upon me; yea, woe is unto me, if I preach not the gospel! …
Matthew 24:45
Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his lord hath made ruler over his household, to give them meat in due season?
and stewards.
Luke 12:42
And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward, whom
his
lord shall make ruler over his household, to give
them their
portion of meat in due season?
Luke 16:1-3
And he said also unto his disciples, There was a certain rich man, which had a steward; and the same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods…
Titus 1:7
For a bishop must be blameless, as the steward of God; not selfwilled, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not given to filthy lucre;
mysteries.
1 Corinthians 2:7
But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery,
even
the hidden
wisdom
, which God ordained before the world unto our glory:
Matthew 13:11
He answered and said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given.
Mark 4:11
And he said unto them, Unto you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God: but unto them that are without, all
these
things are done in parables:
Jump to Previous
Account
Apostles
Christ
Christ's
God's
Judged
Manner
Ministers
Mysteries
Officers
Ought
Regard
Responsible
Secret
Secrets
Servants
Stewards
Think
Truths
View
Jump to Next
Account
Apostles
Christ
Christ's
God's
Judged
Manner
Ministers
Mysteries
Officers
Ought
Regard
Responsible
Secret
Secrets
Servants
Stewards
Think
Truths
View
1 Corinthians 4
1.
In what account the apostles ought to be regarded.
7.
We have nothing which we have not received.
9.
The apostles spectacles to the world, angels, and men;
13.
the filth and offscouring of the world;
15.
yet our fathers in Christ;
16.
whom we ought to follow.
Ellicott's Commentary for English Readers
IV.
(1-5) The first five verses of this chapter contain a further argument against party-spirit as it existed in the Corinthian Church--viz., that God alone can judge of any man's work whether it be worthy, and that God, unlike man, who selects only some
one
for praise, will give to
every
worker his own proper share of approval.
(1)
Man.
--In a generic sense means "every one" (as in
1Corinthians 11:28
, and
Galatians 6:1
).
Us
--
i.e.,
Paul himself and Apollos.
As of the ministers of Christ.
--Better,
as ministers of Christ.
The word used for "ministers" here expresses more strongly the idea of subordination than the word which occurs in
1Corinthians 3:5
. It implies not only those who are under one superior, but those who are in a still inferior position--the officer who has to obey orders, as in
Matthew 5:25
--a "servant" (
Matthew 26:58
). Though servants, their office is one of great trust; they are "stewards" to whom the owner of the house has entrusted the care of those sacred things--"mysteries"--which heretofore have been hidden, but are now made known to them, his faithful subordinates. It is to be remembered that even the steward in a Greek household was generally a slave. . . .
Pulpit Commentary
Verses 1-5.
-
Judgments, human and Divine, respecting ministers.
Verse 1.
-
Let a man so account of us.
Since it is inevitable that Christians should form some estimate of the position of their ministers, he proceeds to tell them what that estimate should be. Ministers are not to be unduly magnified, for their position is subordinate; they are not to be unduly depreciated, for if they are faithful they may appeal from frivolous human prejudices and careless depreciations to that only Judge and Master before whom they stand or fall.
Ministers
; here
huperetas
; in
1 Corinthians 3:5
diakonous.
They are
huperetai
(in its derivation "under rowers") in their relation to Christ;
diakonoi in
their relation to men.
Of Christ;
and therefore responsible to Him.
Stewards
; dispensers, subordinate distributors. These "agents" were higher slaves (
Luke 16:1-8
).
Of the mysteries of God
. The word "mysteries" means truths once hidden but now revealed; as in
Luke 8:10
, "Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God." In later patristic usage the word means "sacraments;" but St. Paul has expressly said (
1 Corinthians 1:17
) that his mission was to preach the gospel, not primarily to administer the sacraments. (For descriptions of the work of a minister according to St. Paul's lofty ideal, see the pastoral Epistles, and
1 Thessalonians 2:7-11
;
Colossians 1:25-29
;
Acts 20:18-21, 24-28
. St. Peter's is given in
1 Peter 4:10, 11
;
1 Peter 5:2-4
.) A minister is not to be estimated as a supernatural teacher, or a civil autocrat, or an infallible critic, but as an ambassador from Christ, who reveals to the "initiated" that which they could not otherwise know.
Parallel Commentaries ...
Greek
So then,
Οὕτως
(Houtōs)
Adverb
Strong's 3779:
Thus, so, in this manner. Or (referring to what precedes or follows).
men
ἄνθρωπος
(anthrōpos)
Noun - Nominative Masculine Singular
Strong's 444:
A man, one of the human race. From aner and ops; man-faced, i.e. A human being.
ought to regard
λογιζέσθω
(logizesthō)
Verb - Present Imperative Middle or Passive - 3rd Person Singular
Strong's 3049:
To reckon, count, charge with; reason, decide, conclude; think, suppose.
us
ἡμᾶς
(hēmas)
Personal / Possessive Pronoun - Accusative 1st Person Plural
Strong's 1473:
I, the first-person pronoun. A primary pronoun of the first person I.
as
ὡς
(hōs)
Adverb
Strong's 5613:
Probably adverb of comparative from hos; which how, i.e. In that manner.
servants
ὑπηρέτας
(hypēretas)
Noun - Accusative Masculine Plural
Strong's 5257:
From hupo and a derivative of eresso; an under-oarsman, i.e. subordinate.
of Christ
Χριστοῦ
(Christou)
Noun - Genitive Masculine Singular
Strong's 5547:
Anointed One; the Messiah, the Christ. From chrio; Anointed One, i.e. The Messiah, an epithet of Jesus.
and
καὶ
(kai)
Conjunction
Strong's 2532:
And, even, also, namely.
stewards
οἰκονόμους
(oikonomous)
Noun - Accusative Masculine Plural
Strong's 3623:
A household manager, a steward, guardian.
of the mysteries
μυστηρίων
(mystēriōn)
Noun - Genitive Neuter Plural
Strong's 3466:
From a derivative of muo; a secret or 'mystery'.
of God.
Θεοῦ
(Theou)
Noun - Genitive Masculine Singular
Strong's 2316:
A deity, especially the supreme Divinity; figuratively, a magistrate; by Hebraism, very.
Links
1 Corinthians 4:1 NIV
1 Corinthians 4:1 NLT
1 Corinthians 4:1 ESV
1 Corinthians 4:1 NASB
1 Corinthians 4:1 KJV
1 Corinthians 4:1  BibleApps.com
1 Corinthians 4:1 Biblia Paralela
1 Corinthians 4:1 Chinese Bible
1 Corinthians 4:1 French Bible
1 Corinthians 4:1 Catholic Bible
NT Letters: 1 Corinthians 4:1 So let a man think of us (1 Cor. 1C iC 1Cor i cor icor)
