Meta Information:
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'Homepage for Tau Beta Pi members including recent news, upcoming events, and useful links for officers and general members.'}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': 'Home, News, Upcoming Events, Job Board, Event Calendar, Store'}
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1, minimal-ui'}
{'name': 'mobile-web-app-capable', 'content': 'yes'}
{'name': 'apple-mobile-web-app-capable', 'content': 'yes'}
{'name': 'apple-mobile-web-app-status-bar-style', 'content': 'black-translucent'}

Body Text:
Tau Beta Pi Members Website
Members & Chapters
Collegiate Chapters
Collegiate Officers
Alumni Chapters
Alumni Officers
Advisors
Volunteer Opportunities
Distinguished Members
Member Lookup
Organization
Association Structure
Leadership
Boards & Committees
Convention
Districts
Publications
The Bent
The Bulletin
Press Releases
Other Media
Blog
Programs
Alumni Giving
Engineering Futures
Scholarships
Fellowships
K-12 Mindset
NEST
Awards
Resources
Member Benefits
Loans & Grants
Career Assistance
Governing Documents
Info Book
Quick Links
Contact Us
Store
Update Member Information
Chapter Reporting System
Recruiting Site
Donate
Tau Beta Pi
The Engineering Honor Society
Tau Beta Pi News
New member website launches
The member website has been re-organized and previous bookmarks will no longer work, except for  the
chapter reporting system
. Can't locate something or found an error? Contact
.
Register for the May 19 Tau Bate Talk
Go here for more information and to register for the May 19 Talk. See the
Tau Bate Talk webpage
for future dates and videos of past talks.
Upgrade your Bent Subscription
Life paper subscribers can switch or add a digital subscription for free! Email tbp.memberupdate@tbp.org.
Michael R Bloomberg,
MD D '64
, received the Presidential Medal of Freedom
He was cited as an entrepreneur, philanthropist, and three-term mayor who revolutionized the financial information industry and transformed New York City's education, environment, public health, and the arts.
Previous
Next
Hidden
Recent Headlines
New member website launches
Register for the May 19 Tau Bate Talk
Upgrade your
Bent
Subscription
Bloomberg awarded Presidential Medal of Freedom
Scholarships & Fellowships
Each year, the Association awards up to 32 Fellowships of $10,000 to students in any engineering discipline, for one year of graduate study. Approximately 250 Scholarships of $ 2,000 are awarded to members for their senior year of study in engineering, or $1,000 for one semester.
Scholarships
|
Fellowships
Member Information
Wondering if someone is a member of Tau Beta Pi?  You can search by last name, chapter, class (graduation) year, or location to find other Tau Bates. Also, update your mailing address or other contact information to make sure you keep receiving The Bent and other Association news.
Member Lookup
Update Your Information
Member Benefits
Members can take advantage of career assistance opportunities plus exclusive discounts on products and services including: computers, test preparation materials for FE & PE exams, travel, hotels, and home mortgages.
Explore All Member Benefits
TBP Store
The
only
place on Earth to get your Tau Beta Pi gear! Shop and order official apparel, insignia items, jewelry, graduation regalia, and chapter supplies to help run your chapter. You can also subscribe to the Bent and make a gift here!
Shop Now
Job Board Posts
(865) 546-4578
|
Contact
Advisors
Store
Giving
Site Map
Convention
The Bent
Info Book
Alumni Officers
Collegiate Officers
Member Benefits
Member Lookup
©2024 The Tau Beta Pi Association, Inc. All rights reserved.
All individual email addresses on Tau Beta Pi websites are exclusively for use in the conduct of Tau Beta Pi related business.
Any other use, including recruiting and marketing, is strictly prohibited.
Founding member of the
Association of College Honor Societies
