Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Elementor 3.21.5; features: e_optimized_assets_loading, additional_custom_breakpoints; settings: css_print_method-external, google_font-enabled, font_display-auto'}
{'name': 'google-site-verification', 'content': 'kTTAwYKQQDjFPPLMrgI8IIpE51BwYHl5BbP6cWV8zMA'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://colorofchange.org/wp-content/uploads/2020/12/cropped-COC-logo-1-1-270x270.png'}

Body Text:
Color Of Change – Color Of Change helps you do something real about injustice.
Javascript must be enabled for the correct page display
Skip to Content
menu opener
ABOUT
Back to main
Our Work
Our team
Contact Us
Careers
Our Campaigns
Create a Campaign
Join Us
Press
DONATE
facebook icon
twitter icon
youtube icon
Search
submit button
Join Us to Defend Black History
This February, take action to defend Black History this month and beyond! Join us and become a COLOR OF CHANGE member.
Become A Member
Tell DA Fani Wilis: Clear the Backlog
Conditions at the Fulton County Jail are still a humanitarian crisis, but Fulton County District Attorney Fani Willis can change the tragic conditions.
Take Action
Protect Police Accountability in Chicago
We can’t be silent about this. Sign the petition to stand against the police union’s request to move police accountability behind closed doors.
Take Action
Tell IB & Cambridge Assessment: Stop Erasing Black & Queer Students
Here’s the bottom line: International Baccalaureate and Cambridge Assessment are money-hungry corporations that never have put our children’s education first.
Take Action
Tell Your State Rep: Stand with Progressive Prosecutors
Yet another reform-minded local prosecutor has been removed from office. Here’s what you need to know.
Take Action
Support Community Safety Agenda
The Community Safety Legislative Agenda outlines solutions that invest in people and communities — not police and prisons — to keep us safe. It includes the Break The Cycle of Violence Act for violence intervention, and the Mental Health Justice Act, to dispatch mental health professionals to respond to people in crisis.
Take Action
RECENT VICTORIES
Florida Housing Complex Forced to Stop Illegally Evicting Black Families
Last January we launched a rapid response campaign following a wave of
evictions at Holly Court Apartments
in Tampa. Victoria Lee, a tenant there, used our OrganizeFor platform to mobilize thousands of members and amplify tenant demands to fix the plumbing, honor leases, and support tenants who’d been illegally pushed out. Many families were given eviction notices on New Year’s Eve for no reason at all and given just 30 days to find a new home. One mother reported having to go to the corner store to use the bathroom as raw sewage backed up in her tub. Management all but ignored calls for help and she had to call out of work for days because she couldn’t shower. After the online petition and a sleep-in protest, Palm Communities agreed to honor residents’ leases, provide temporary housing for displaced residents, and resolve maintenance issues. Housing is a human right, but far too often greed and profit trump the needs of Black and low-income residents who live in buildings owned by private equity firms. Your calls and text messages kept residents in their homes!
social list opener
AT&T Pulls Funding from White Nationalist Network
With your help, we pressured AT&T to stop funding the far-right network One America News. OAN was a major vehicle for Trump, and has continued to provide a “friendly” platform for his allies. We’ve seen correspondents use racial slurs, call for the execution of election officials, suggest shooting unhoused people – all without consequence. OAN consistently promotes hate-filled content, and disseminates dangerous misinformation about the 2020 elections and safety of the COVID-19 vaccine, with the goal of provoking their audience. Research revealed a major reason for the network’s success was support from AT&T. AT&T should know better. So thousands of Color Of Change members wrote to AT&T CEO John Stankey, and
we were heard
. One America Network has been removed from DirectTV. This is another step towards making sure the media isn’t allowed to amplify racist lies that lead to real-world violence against Black people.
social list opener
Biden Grants Clemency to 70 People on Home Confinement
Throughout the pandemic, we’ve fought to get incarcerated people who pose no risk to their communities but could fall deathly ill with COVID sent home. On April 26, 2022, nearly 150,000 Color Of Change members helped convince President Biden to free 70 people on home confinement. That means they can live independently, pursue their dreams, spend time with friends and family without electronic monitors or other dehumanizing conditions of confinement. It is historic for a president to grant so many clemencies in their first term. But thousands more people deserve to be free – and risk being sent back due to minor technicalities or bureaucratic errors. People on home confinement have had to turn down jobs or miss funerals because they’re outside of the range they’re allowed to travel. Biden promised he’d end mass incarceration and cut the prison population in half.
Help us hold him to that
.
social list opener
1
2
3
…
14
go to next page
Color Of Change helps people respond effectively to injustice in the world around us. As a national online force driven by 7 million members, we move decision makers in corporations and government to create a more human and less hostile world for Black people, and all people. Until justice is real.
Thank you for signing up!
Join us
facebook icon
twitter icon
youtube icon
instagram icon
©2024 Color Of Change. All Rights Reserved.
About
Contact Us
Careers
Privacy Policy
Terms and Conditions
icon angle double up
Go to top
Back to top
Make A Gift To Fuel The Fight For Justice!
Donate
