Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'content-type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=UTF-8'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': "Welcome to the Tim Tebow Foundation, where we serve children and share God's love. Learn more about us online and find out how you can help!"}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Concrete CMS'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Tim Tebow Foundation | Changing Lives Through Faith, Hope & Love'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': "Welcome to the Tim Tebow Foundation, where we serve children and share God's love. Learn more about us online and find out how you can help!"}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://timtebowfoundation.org/'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://timtebowfoundation.org/application/files/5716/8202/5309/ttf-genesis-global-share.jpg'}
{'property': 'og:image:width', 'content': '3356'}
{'property': 'og:image:height', 'content': '1760'}
{'property': 'og:locale', 'content': 'en_US'}
{'property': 'og:updated_time', 'content': '2024-05-02T14:37:19+00:00'}
{'http-equiv': 'Cache-Control', 'content': 'no-cache, no-store, must-revalidate'}
{'http-equiv': 'Pragma', 'content': 'no-cache'}
{'http-equiv': 'Expires', 'content': '0'}
{'name': 'facebook-domain-verification', 'content': '2vksig2gicq9q01ufiafqglnareadz'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=no'}
{'name': 'msvalidate.01', 'content': '0A1CEA002A8CFC9DF451FAB64E99E2D8'}
{'name': 'format-detection', 'content': 'telephone=no'}

Body Text:
Tim Tebow Foundation | Changing Lives Through Faith, Hope & Love
Mission
Mission
Learn the “why” behind our mission: To bring Faith, Hope and Love to those needing a brighter day in their darkest hour of need.
About TTF
Non-Negotiables
Staff
Stewardship
Impact
Impact
The Foundation utilizes the public platform that God has blessed Tim Tebow with to inspire and make a difference in people's lives throughout the world.
We fight for the world's
Most Vulnerable People
Orphan Care &
Prevention
Profound
Medical Needs
Special Needs
Ministry
Anti-Human Trafficking
& Child Exploitation
Stories
Stories
Read stories of how Faith, Hope & Love have been shared and have impacted lives around the world.
Latest Stories
Latest Videos
Get Involved
Get Involved
Ready to make a lasting impact?  Explore ways to get involved with the Tim Tebow Foundation.
Connect with Us
Free Devotionals
Join The Movement
Join Rescue Team
Fundraise
Protect Our Children
Night to Shine 10 Years
Donate
Donate
We hope that you will consider joining our team through prayer and financial support to help change lives. Together we WILL make a difference!
See Them
One-Time Giving
Monthly Giving
Join as a Defender
Fundraise for TTF
Fundraise for Anti-Human Trafficking
unKNOWN
Donor Login
Donate
Menu
Close
Faith
Hope
Love
Your browser does not support the video tag. I suggest you upgrade your browser.
We fight for the MVP
Help combat child sexual abuse and exploitation
Join the Fight
Join the Fight!
Select a One-Time Donation
$25
$50
$100
$500
Other
Our Mission
is to bring Faith, Hope and Love to those needing a brighter day in their darkest hour of need.
Since its inception in 2010, the Tim Tebow Foundation has served those who are hurting, marginalized, and trapped in darkness in 86 countries and counting. In addition to ministry operations and services that meet some of the most dire physical needs, TTF also has a heart to share the Gospel with as many vulnerable people as possible to help them know their inherent value as children of God.
Who We Fight For
Our heart
is to love Jesus and to love people.
We are called to fight for the world's most vulnerable people through our four main areas of focus – Anti-Human Trafficking and Child Exploitation, Orphan Care + Prevention, Profound Medical Needs, and Special Needs Ministry.
Our Non-Negotiables
How we serve the Most Vulnerable People
When you choose to give to TTF, you choose not only to support ongoing ministries impacting lives daily, but also to help the next one—those who have yet to be reached. Learn how you can have an immediate impact in our fight for people in chaos, crisis, hardship, and darkness. Our mission is a big one. But with God, all things are possible. Let's keep going together.
Orphan Care + Prevention
5
Countries We Serve In
300+
Forever Familes United
12
Abandoned Babies Rescued
7
FHL Homes
24
Vulnerable Girls Reunited
Currently, there are an estimated 153 million orphaned and abandoned children around the world. And of the 153 million, many suffer from abuse, neglect, or exploitation—a reality that no child should experience. The Tim Tebow Foundation provides for the physical and spiritual care of children who have been left homeless or abandoned, as well as resources to create strong families and adoption assistance, all to protect children from these vulnerabilities and give them hope for a secure future.
Learn More
Special Needs Ministry
46
Countries We Serve In
75,000+
Honored Guests Celebrated in 2023
700+
Children Receiving Education and Care
It is estimated that 16% of the world’s population lives with a disability. Considered some of the world’s most vulnerable people, they are often denied the same opportunities as their peers to feel valued as a part of not only the life of their local community but also in the life of the Church. In many countries around the globe, people with disabilities are viewed as a burden, worthless, or even cursed. However, God greatly loves and values these precious people and so does the Tim Tebow Foundation. In this love, TTF is on mission to change the narrative.
Learn More
Profound Medical Needs
4
Countries We Serve In
105+
Official W15H Experiences
8,250+
Life-Changing Surgeries
9,000+
Expressions of Faith
11
Timmy's Playrooms
Even in today’s modern world, there are regions with significantly little access to quality medical care or, in even more places, an inability for families to afford it if it is available. Through strategic, official ministry partnerships, the foundation has helped build and operate medical facilities in the Philippines, Zimbabwe, and the Peruvian jungles. By partnering with pioneers in developing countries to provide spiritual and medical healing, the foundation is able to meet the needs of thousands of vulnerable people every year.
Learn More
Anti-Human Trafficking + Child Exploitation
16
Countries We Serve In
43
Safe Homes Operating Worldwide
500+
Total Survivor Capacity Across Homes
3,000+
Survivors Rescued
While statistics are hard to come by, is has been said that there are more than 40 million people around the world being trafficked and exploited through force, fraud, and coercion. Engaged in the global fight against human trafficking and child exploitation, the Tim Tebow foundation is committed to catalyzing awareness and prevention, to enabling the rescue of victims, and to providing restorative care to survivors.
Learn More
Latest Stories
Blessing's Story: A Healing Testament to Faith, Hope and Love
Read
Julinda and Dren: A Mother and Son’s Journey to Find Hope and Belonging
Read
Betselot’s Story: Her Deformity Does Not Define Her Identity
Read
Hawa's Story: How God's Love Rescues Us From Despair
Read
“It’s About Love”: Church Reflects on 10 Years of Hosting Night to Shine
Read
A Night to Honor and Celebrate God’s Beloved Children
Read
God’s Love Shines Year After Year
Read
How Night to Shine and Special Needs Ministry Have Become the Heartbeat of a Church in Tallahassee
Read
An Answered Prayer: Rediet Finds Hope at the Tebow Spine Center
Read
Sebastian: A Child Worth Fighting For
Read
“Operation Renewed Hope II": In Pursuit of the 50,000+ Unidentified Children
Read
10 Years of Bringing a Church Family Together
Read
Haniel’s Story: First Patient Receives Life-Changing Surgery at Tebow Spine Center
Read
Elsa's Childlike Faith
Read
What Love Looks Like: The Griggs Family Adoption Story
Read
Give Life a Chance
Recently, we asked Tim to reflect on some memorable moments of TTF's ministry... This is one of those moments he shared and how your giving can be the difference between life and death.
Make a Donation Today
Watch Impactful Videos
Join The Movement
You can be a part of the community that is bringing Faith, Hope and Love to children around the world. Through our monthly giving program, 100% of your recurring gift will go towards the children that we serve!
Benefits of Joining
Monthly Stories of Your Impact
Exclusive Believe in the Mission T-Shirt
Become a part of the Movement Community more than 5,000 strong
Enable TTF to expand worldwide ministry
First Access to TTF Devotionals
“ ”
Thank you for letting those of us with a small voice help make a big difference.
- TTF Giving Family Member
Join the Movement Today
Join the Rescue Team
The Rescue Team is an army of people committed to engaging, inspiring, and equipping others in the fight against child sexual exploitation and human trafficking.
Benefits of Joining
Monthly stories of your impact
Exclusive Rescue Mission T-Shirt
First Access to TTF Devotionals
Become a part of the Defender Community more than 1,750 strong
Enable TTF to run into chaos and crisis to fight one of the world's greatest evils
“ ”
Thank you for bringing hope and help to these precious, exploited children. It is an honor to be involved in doing something to rescue such a life.
- TTF Rescue Team Member
Join Rescue Team
Join the Mission
Our mission is to bring Faith, Hope and Love to those needing a brighter day in their darkest hour of need.
Mission
Impact
Stories
Get Involved
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Youtube
LinkedIn
The Tim Tebow Foundation is a 501(c)(3) and all donations are tax deductible  to the full extent permitted by law. EIN 27-4345913
WEBSITE BY BULTMAN MEDIA
Connect
Donors Login
Employment
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
Connect
Donors Login
Employment
Privacy Policy
Sitemap
