Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1, shrink-to-fit=no'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'To increase intellectual and philanthropic awareness, with special emphasis on providing scholarships to students attending North Carolina Central University.'}
{'name': 'author', 'content': 'Lucious B. Oliver II'}

Body Text:
To honor the legacy of North Carolina Central University - The AK Foundation
the ak foundation
Our Purpose
Legacy
Your Pledge
Gallery
Contact
Donate
To honor the legacy of our university founder Dr. James E. Shepard through active involvement and financial support of North Carolina Central University, 
thus establishing philanthropy and service as the highest priorities for our membership.
Find Out More
Our Purpose
To increase intellectual, ethical, social, moral, and philanthropic awareness, with special emphasis on providing scholarships to students attending North Carolina Central University. In addition to nurturing the professional development of students, the Foundation strives to deepen our commitment to the community.
The AK Foundation Board of Directors
Click on the images to read each Director profile
X
Darryl D. Berry
Darryl is from Charlotte, North Carolina and resides in Atlanta, Georgia. He graduated from North Carolina Central University in 1984 with a degree in Business Administration. He is an entrepreneur and senior executive with a proven track record of leadership, business development, successful operations and the ability to build high performing organizations to achieve goals.
During his thirty-year corporate career, Darryl managed up to $300 million in sales with a $53 million-dollar budget while leading up to 270 professionals. He has held positions such as national vice-president of sales and operations, regional vice-president, regional director, district manager, sales trainer and sales professional at several Fortune 100 companies, including Arterial Vascular Engineering, Guidant Corporation, Johnson & Johnson, Medtronic, Pfizer and Procter and Gamble. Darryl received and led his teams to receive numerous awards, incentives, recognitions and promotions throughout his corporate career.
In 2004, Darryl started a real estate investment company, and in 2007, he became co-owner of a 100-restaurant brand with more than 1,500 employees. In 2010, Darryl purchased and became the sole owner and CEO of 30 franchised restaurants with approximately 600 employees. After selling the franchised restaurants, Darryl revived his real estate investment company with an emphasis on multi-family properties.
Darryl was initiated in the Alpha Kappa Chapter of Kappa Alpha Psi, Inc. in the Fall of 1980. He is a Life Member of Kappa Alpha Psi, Inc. and former member of the Kappa 100 Executive Leadership Council, from which he received the Entrepreneur of The Year Award at the 80th Grand Chapter Meeting. He is a Co-Founder and former Chairman of the Metro Atlanta Coalition of Kappa, Founder and former Chairman of the Metro Atlanta Kappa New Years’ Eve Scholarship Benefit, former Polemarch of the Stone Mountain Alumni Chapter of Kappa Alpha Psi, Inc., and became a member of the Kappa Alpha Psi Foundation, Inc. Million Dollar Club in 1999. Also, he served as a Trustee of the National Sales Network and of Morris Brown College.
George R. Hamilton
George R. Hamilton is an accomplished global marketing and business executive. After serving as Global Business President of a number of Dow businesses, he retired in 2014 as vice president of Olympic Operations of The Dow Chemical Company, a Worldwide Partner and the Official Chemistry Company of the Olympic Games.
In this role he was responsible for leading all aspects of the company’s Olympic Partnership, including its go-to-market strategy, monetizing the sponsorship, brand awareness/reputation, employee engagement and VIP level hospitality. In four short years he positioned Dow to achieve its revenue goals and delivered innovative solutions to the London 2012, Sochi 2014 and Rio 2016 Games, which enabled higher performance and more sustainable events.
Hamilton was a presenter and panelist at COPP 19 at the United Nations to discuss business driven sustainable initiatives, utilizing Dow’s Sustainable Future Program with the Sochi Games as a proof-point. In 2014 Hamilton was invited by International Olympic Committee (IOC) President Thomas Bach to be a member of the Agenda 2020 Sustainability Workgroup.
Hamilton received his B.S. in Commerce with a Marketing concentration from North Carolina Central University in 1977.  He also received an Executive MBA in 1992 from Indiana University’s School of Business in Bloomington, Indiana.  He was initiated into the Alpha Kappa Chapter of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, in the Spring of 1976, and is now a Life Member.
An ardent supporter of North Carolina Central University, George and his wife Jill have donated more than $2 million in planned and cash gifts in support of scholarships and facilities.  Hamilton served as a member of the Board of Trustees for eleven years and as Board Chair from 2016 to 2019, a period of the largest infrastructure growth in the school’s history.  While on the Board Hamilton chaired the Endowment Fund Committee, chaired the Chancellors Search Committee, The Executive/Personnel Committee, The Academic Student Affairs Committee and served as a member of the North Carolina Central University Foundation Board.
Hamilton was recognized by Black Enterprise as one of the 75 “Most Powerful Executives In Corporate America” in 2005 and again in 2009.  He is also a member of the Boards of the Charles Wright Museum of African American History in Detroit and Lee Health Foundation, the largest public health system in Florida.
Joseph King Davis, Jr
Joseph King Davis, Jr., a native of Durham, North Carolina, completed his formal education in the Durham Public Schools. An Alumnus of North Carolina Central University (Durham, North Carolina), awarded the Bachelor of Science Degree with Honors in 1977, majoring in Biological Sciences, Secondary Education, and Health/Physical Education.  His name appears in Who’s Who in American Colleges and Universities.
An educator, employed by Durham Public Schools, retiring from full time service in February 2012 after 38 years of effective service as an Central Office Administrator; Assistant Principal; Elementary, Middle, and High School Teacher, Coach and Athletic Director; Science Department Chairman and numerous other administrative posts.  Davis continues employment with Durham Public Schools, now spanning 46 years of service.  He has received numerous honors, awards, citations and recognitions in the educational arena across the State of North Carolina.  As an Elementary and High School Teacher, he has received Teacher of the Year honors several times and a finalist for the Durham Public Schools title.  An annual award presented in his name, the Joseph King Davis, Jr. Biological Science Award.  His name appears in Who’s Who of American Teachers.  Davis is a Hall of Fame Inductee for the Hillside High School Alumni Association and the Livingstone College United Negro College Fund Leaders Hall ofFame.
Initiated into the North Carolina Central University Chapter, the Alpha Kappa of Kappa Alpha Psi on April 12, 1976, Davis has risen through the ranks of the organization.  A member of the Durham (NC) Alumni Chapter, former Board Member, Keeper of Records, Historian, and elected most recently again, to the Board of Directors.  Davis has served the Middle Eastern Province as Alumni Province Board Member, Province Keeper of Records and Exchequer and appointed the 19th Province Polemarch from1993 - 1998.  Presently, he serves as Province Chaplain, a position held since 1998.  The Province’s Undergraduate Leadership Conference is named in his honor, the Joseph King Davis, Jr. Undergraduate Leadership Summit. Appointed by several Grand Polemarchs, Davis has provided leadership for several National Commissions and Committees of the Fraternity.  Numerous awards and recognitions to his credit at all levels of the Fraternity, receiving the Middle Eastern Province’s Lifetime Achievement Award. Davis received the 113th Elder Watson Diggs Award at the 85th Grand Chapter Meeting for meritorious service and significant achievements.
Nurtured by the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church, he has served major posts in leadership at the local, district, conference and Episcopal levels of the denomination.  Immediate Past International President of the Assembly of Christian Educators (President Emeritus), and elected in 2021 as the International President of the Connectional Lay Council of the AME Zion Church.
                                    His community and civic involvement is extensive, serving numerous Boards and auxiliaries, and honored for his meritorious service.
Cornell Slade
Cornell Slade is a 1975 graduate of the School of Business, North Carolina Central University. Upon graduation, Cornell had several opportunities available. He chose one that guaranteed geographic variety and professional challenges. Cornell accepted a position with Cargill Inc. At that time, the largest private company in the United States.
Cornell held several positions in Iowa, Illinois, Ohio, Minnesota and Winnipeg Manitoba Canada. There were a host of positions held from trader, Regional Trader, Sector Leader leading up to Assistant Vice President of Cargill Limited, responsible for all commodity trading in Canada with offices from coast to coast plus one in Tokyo Japan. These positioned Cornell for significant global travel and experiences.
During the dotcom era, Cornell worked as a founding member of an entity code named, Evergreen. It was a joint venture between Cargill, John Deere and Wells Fargo. The entity provided marketing advice, parts inventory for tractors and machinery and financial management and financing to farmers. Cornell elected to leave after final stress testing, becoming President of Cargill Commodity Services. CCS employed trained advisory services across the country. This business won the Charmain Innovation Award.
Thanks to years of professional growth and involvement, a new opportunity arose. In 2005 Cornell purchased controlling interest in The Best Egg Company. Best Egg supplied 50,000.000 pounds of liquid egg to McDonalds with $35,000,000 in annual sales. The company’s products went all over the country and at one point supplied about 15-20 percent of McDonalds domestic use. This was an opportunity to use all the skills that had been developed over the year. The company experienced growth in all phases of performance. In 2018, Cornell sold his controlling interest in Best Egg.
Cornell is now a partner in 5B, a venture capital company focusing on partnering with minority and female owned businesses. He is also a member of !00 Black Men in addition to being a Trustee of North Carolina Central University and the University’s Foundation. He is also active as a member of the Board of Visitors with the School of Business.
Cornell has a long history in Kappa Alpha Psi. He pledged in Fall of 1972 at North Carolina Central University and held various positions in the numerous locations where he lived, including Polemarch of the Toledo Alumni Chapter.
Cornell has served on many community boards and organizations including Fellowship Missionary Baptist Church in Minneapolis, Macedonia Missionary Baptist Church in Wilmington, NC; 100 Black Men of Southeastern North Carolina, The Cape Fear Alumni Association, The NCCU National Alumni Association and The Eagle Club.
Frank McNeil
Frank W. McNeil was born and raised in High Point, North Carolina, the youngest of six sons born to Walter and Madge McNeil. Educated in the public school system, McNeil graduated from William Penn High School in 1967.
Upon graduation, McNeil entered North Carolina Central University in Durham, North Carolina where he majored in Political Science, graduating in 1971. While in undergraduate school, McNeil was initiated into Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity, Alpha Kappa Chapter in 1969. In 1971, McNeil was elected Polemarch of Alpha Kappa Chapter. Upon graduation McNeil entered North Carolina Central University School of Law graduating in 1974 with a Juris Doctor in Law.
In 1974 McNeil accepted a position with the Illinois Law Enforcement Commission in Springfield, Illinois as a Legislative Specialist where he began his professional career. Serving in numerous positions in state government for the next few years, in 1982, McNeil was elected to the Sangamon County Board of Supervisors where he served until 1987 upon being elected Alderman Ward 2.
In 1985, William Washington, Rudy Davenport and McNeil filed suit in Federal Court alleging the commission form of Government violated the Voting Rights Act, after a historic two year battle, the plaintiffs prevailed in McNeil v. City of Springfield, a landmark voting rights case in the nation. Upon establishing a Mayor Aldermanic form of government, McNeil was elected Alderman Ward 2, a position he held until May 2007.
Serving in numerous state government positions, McNeil was hired in 1982 by Senator Phil Rock and served as the first African American Parliamentarian for the Illinois Senate. In 1987, McNeil accepted a position with Chicago Urban League as Government Relations Coordinator.
After several positions in private and public life including Executive Director, Illinois Association of Minorities in Government, McNeil returned to state government in 2003 as Director of Office of Business and Workforce Diversity with the Illinois Department of Transportation. Transitioning in March 2005 to Illinois Department of Children and Family Services as Associate Deputy Director, Office of Monitoring and Quality Assurrance.
McNeil has served and been appointed to numerous Boards and Commissions including the Governor’s Task Force on Human Service Reform, African American Family Commission, Chairman, Springfield Community Federation, Boys and Girls Club of Springfield, Springfield Public School Foundation Springfield Branch NAACP and many others. A member of Kappa Alpha Psi Fraternity Springfield Alumni Chapter McNeil is married to Barbara, his wife of 45 years. They are the proud parents of two sons Kwahme of the City and Kofi residing in Greensboro, North Carolina.
Phillip N. Perry
...
Carlos Watson
...
James D. Williams
James D. “Butch” Williams, Jr. graduated from North Carolina Central University with a Bachelor of Arts Degree in Political Science in May 1976. He entered North Carolina Central’s Law School in the fall of 1976 and distinguished himself as law student. He immediately passed the bar. Butch put his civilian law practice on hold to serve his country in the United States Marine Corps where he served as an infantry officer as well as a noted judge advocate.
His primary practice areas are criminal law, both State and Federal, as well as sports law and entertainment law. Some of his noted participation has been in the Duke Lacrosse case, Michael Vick’s criminal case, Joe Brewer’s corruption case, as well as the Wesley Snipes tax case. In the sports law area, he has distinguished himself as a sports agent and lecturer on different areas of sports and entertainment law. Most notably, he has represented 10 top draft picks in both the NFL and the NBA. Overall, he has represented 10 Pro Bowl players.
He has been an adjunct professor of law at North Carolina Central University School of Law where he teaches Trial Practice and Sports Law for over 25 years. Butch is the immediate past Chairman of the Board of Visitors for the School of Law and a member of the Foundation Board, both at North Carolina Central University.  He was initiated into the Alpha Kappa Chapter of Kappa Alpha Psi, Fraternity in the Fall of 1973.
Keenon James
...
Darryl Berry
Chairman
George R. Hamilton
Vice Chairman
Phillip N. Perry
Treasurer
Keenon James
Frank McNeil
Cornell Slade
Carlos Watson
Alpha Kappa Endowed Scholarship Fund and AK1 Events
In keeping with the AK Foundation's unwavering commitment to honor the legacy of Dr. James E. Shepard, the board has established the $250,000 Alpha Kappa Endowed Scholarship Fund.
Alpha Kappa Endowed
Scholarship Fund
Alpha Kappa Endowed Scholarship Fund signing April 8, 2018
Dr. James E. Shepard
Level
$50,000 and Up
A. Moore Shearin
Level
$25,000 - $49,999
Attorney Hiliary H. Holloway
Level
$10,000 - $24,999
Joseph King Davis
Level
$2,500
-
$4,999
George R. Hamilton
Level
$1,000
-
$2,499
Larry Black & Ryan Smith Championship
Level
$500
-
$999
Donate Now
to AK Foundation
Pay
Membership Dues
Donate Now
to AK1 Blue Room
Donations to the AK Endowment are fully tax deductible.
Donations to AK1 Blue Room are tax deductible above value of the event.
The AK Foundation
The AK Foundation
The AK Foundation
The AK Foundation
The AK Foundation
The AK Foundation
A Word from the Board
Greetings from the AK Foundation Board of Directors.  The AK Foundation was established in 2011 with the mission to honor the legacy of Dr. James E. Shepard through philanthropy and service.
Dr. Shepard was a visionary who founded North Carolina Central University (NCCU) in 1910 and also established the Alpha Kappa Chapter of Kappa Alpha Psi in 1931. His efforts resulted in untold opportunities for higher education, training and service, that have positively impacted multiple generations of graduates and our families.
In 2018, the AK Foundation established the Alpha Kappa Endowment Fund at NCCU to provide scholarships for NCCU students so that they too can have a more significant impact on the communities where they  live and work.  The endowment goal is set at $250,000 and our vision is to retire this inaugural commitment in 2022.  In addition, we plan to raise funds via future AK Foundation campaigns to support and supplement other initiatives for NCCU.
The AK Foundation Board is honored to have this opportunity to serve our Alma Mater in this capacity.  We are fully committed to the Foundation’s purpose and you can count on us to be fiscally responsible for this organization, act in accordance with our bylaws and policies and provide our financial support.
Please join us in our Mission to assist deserving students, further enrich the University and extend Dr. Shepard’s legacy by making a contribution via our donation page:
"https://theakfoundation.com"
Also, please feel free to send us your suggestions or questions at:
contactus@theakfoundation.com
And, visit our website for quarterly updates on the difference we are making.
In Truth, Service and Achievement,
The AK Foundation Board of Directors
Make Checks payable to
The AK Foundation | 3428 Donlin Drive | Wake Forest, NC 27587
contactus@theakfoundation.com
