Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'itemprop': 'name', 'content': 'NCCADV'}
{'itemprop': 'url', 'content': 'https://nccadv.org/'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://nccadv.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/05/being-favicon.png'}
{'content': 'https://nccadv.org/?s={s}', 'itemprop': 'target'}
{'content': 'https://nccadv.org/?s={s}', 'itemprop': 'target'}

Body Text:
NCCADV
Skip to primary navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to footer
NCCADV
Looking for help? Want to talk to someone right now?
Call the National Domestic Violence Hotline at
1-800-799-7233
, available 24/7. TTY:
1-800-787-3224

×
Search
Quick Exit
English
English
Español de México
Get Help
Get Information
Domestic Violence Information
Domestic Violence Homicides
Thrift Store Directory
Domestic Violence Job Opportunities
Our Work
Campus Program
Children and Youth Exposure to Domestic Violence
Economic Advocacy
Healthcare Program
Housing
Language Access
Legal & Policy Work
Prevention
Technical Assistance
Training Program
About Us
Staff
Board of Directors
990s & Annual Reports
Employment Opportunities
Internship Opportunities
Contact Us
News & Updates
Membership
Member Login
Donate
Search
Quick Exit
Leading the state’s  movement to end  domestic violence
At NCCADV, we strive to bring together people who share a common goal: To create a world where everyone can live – and love – free from the threat of abuse.
Learn About Us
Get help
Local domestic violence agencies serve all 100 counties across North Carolina. They offer a variety of services, from 24-hour confidential crisis hotlines to emergency shelter to support groups and counseling.
Get Help
Get information
Resources library with informative tools such as quick guides, tip sheets, best practices, and more.
Get  Information
Trainings
Our Training Program provides interactive in-person, virtual, and self-paced training experiences. We are dedicated to delivering high quality training that are relevant, engaging, and meet the ongoing needs of our members.
Learn More
Memberships
Membership is open to domestic violence agencies, community partners, colleges, and individuals. If you share our vision of eliminating domestic violence in North Carolina, we invite you to become a member!
Learn More
12 October, 2023
News & Updates
Publications
#EndDVinNC  A Domestic Violence Awareness Month Campaign
We’re excited to share NCCADV’s official launch of #EndDVinNC We have brand new social media content for this year’s Domestic Violence Awareness Month (DVAM)!  This year’s campaign includes curated social…
View All News & Updates
Donate Today
Your contributions help us advocate for statewide policies and programs that protect survivors and prevent harm. Your support helps us empower local agencies to serve survivors in their communities. Please consider donating today.
Donate Now
Looking for help?
Want to talk to someone right now?
NCCADV does NOT provide direct services. If you are looking for crisis services for domestic violence survivors, please visit our
Get Help
page to find the crisis line number for the domestic violence agency in your county. You can also call the
National Domestic Violence Hotline
at
1-800-799-7233
, available 24/7. TTY:
1-800-787-3224
Sign-up for our newsletter
Want to stay up to date on NCCADV’s events, advocacy efforts, and other issues impacting victims and survivors? Sign up to receive our quarterly newsletter – coming soon! We’ll never share your information – view our
privacy policy
.
This quarterly newsletter is
not
the member-only Weekly Digest newsletter. For assistance with the Weekly Digest, please contact the Director of Member Services using
our contact form
.
Footer
Contact us
3710 University Drive, Suite 300
Durham, NC 27707
Ph: 919-956-9124
Fax: 919-682-1449
Sitemap
Get Help
Get Information
Our Work
About Us
News & Updates
Membership
Contact Us
Member Login
This product was supported by grant number 2018-V2-GX-0061, awarded by the NC Governor’s Crime Commission, NC Department of Safety, Office for Victims of Crime, Office of Justice Programs, U.S. Department of Justice. The opinions, findings, and conclusions or recommendations expressed in this product are those of the contributors and do not necessarily represent the official position or policies of the U.S. Department of Justice.
This website uses cookies.
Click here
to learn more about cookies and tech safety.
© 2024 NCCADV  ·
Privacy Policy
·
Terms of Service
· Website Designed & Developed by
ThompsonStenning Inc.
Quick Exit
Safety Alert
If you think someone is monitoring your devices, visit this website from a computer, tablet, or smartphone that isn’t being monitored.
Exit this website quickly with the
purple button
in the upper right corner, and then delete it from your browser history. For more info on clearing your browser history and other tech safety tips,
click here
.
CLOSE
