Meta Information:
{'id': 'description_meta_tag', 'name': 'description', 'content': 'National humanitarian and service organization serving youth and adults.'}
{'id': 'keywords_meta_tag', 'name': 'keywords', 'content': 'TLOD'}
{'name': 'referrer', 'content': 'always'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://s3.amazonaws.com/ClubExpressClubFiles/872061/css/Sharons_Crown.png'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'National humanitarian and service organization serving youth and adults.'}

Body Text:
Home - Top Ladies of Distinction, Inc.
Skip to main content


Print This Page

Text Size

Scroll To Top
Member Login
Contact Us
menu
Home
About TLOD
President's Message
History
Founders
Leadership
Past National Presidents
Honorary Members
Programs
Headquarters
Status of Women
About TTA
TTA History
Locations
States by Area
Area I
Area II
Area III
Area IV
Area V
Area VI
Chapter Finder
Communications
News
The Voice
The Crown
Partnerships
Alzheimer's Walk
American Heart Association
Black Women's Agenda
Franchell Boswell
Keep America Beautiful
March of Dimes
NAACP
NCNW
Sickle Cell Disease Assn.
St. Jude
UNCF
Events
Event Calendar
Days of Observation
Licensed Vendors
Donations
Contact Us
Who We Are
Top Ladies of Distinction, Inc. (TLOD), is a 501(c)3 organization, under the leadership of the National President and CEO, Lady Eddie Lee Marsh. TLOD declares that the purpose of this organization shall be to advance the standards, ideals, and general welfare of the community through service by encouraging, promoting, and extending activities that will be conducive to the betterment and ultimate welfare of people.
Top Ladies of Distinction have over 125 Chapters across the United States and currently with a membership of over 7,500 and approximately 3,500 Teens. The Mission of TLOD is to enhance and enrich the lives of youth and adults through national programs, projects, and partners.
What We Do
Top Ladies of Distinction, Inc. sponsors Top Teens of America to provide opportunities for their potential and to promote their educational, social, spiritual, moral, cultural, and economic
development; to assist in the promotion of wholesome and meaningful living of Senior Citizens; to improve the Status of Women, and develop, promote, and support activities that are
designed to preserve the physical beauty in our communities through Community Beautification. To fulfill this vision is to bring together , through partnerships, mutually collaborative existing community, educational, and business-based interests that are conscientiously attempting to assist us in developing a better citizenry for the globalized technical world. Our projects include NCNW, NAACP, UNCF, Sickle Cell Awareness and Literacy.
Why We Do IT
Top Ladies of Distinction, Inc. identifies current trends that are impacting our communities negatively and implements strategies, through our programs, projects, activities, and events to shed light and educate communities on these issues. We unite as an organization to take a stance on mental and physical health  disparities, economic imbalances, environmental concerns, human trafficking, gun violence, voting rights and opportunities for youth to succeed in this ever-changing world. We can be effective.
(Click on the Area Logo for more information)
Recent Articles
Recent News
Upcoming Events
Facebook Feed
Subscribe to our Email Updates
Subscribe Now
Home
|
Contact Us
|
Copyright © 2024 - All Rights Reserved
|
Terms of Use
|
Privacy Policy
Powered By
