Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width,initial-scale=1, maximum-scale=1, user-scalable=0'}

Body Text:
Triangle Veterans Wellness Outreach Center Inc. - Resource Center
Contact Information
Give
Triangle Veterans Wellness Outreach Center Inc.
James R. Alston, Founder/Executive Director, US Army (Ret), and VA Accredited
Home
About Us
Assistance
Veterans Affairs from "Nam to Now"
Outreach
Hot Job Listings
Filing Your Claim
Committed Veteran Assistance
Transportation Services
Dog Training
SHORT -TERM
Seminar Material
Dog Training
Transportation
SHORT -TERM
LONG-TERM GOALS
Contact
Contributions
Photos
CFC Event
May 19-20 2016 Event
Fundraiser Harris Teeter
TVWOC Photos
Resource Center
Recreation
Member Directory
Resource Center
Military Dependent ID Cards
The Military ID card is an essential part of accessing your benefits, without it you may not be able to get on base, go to the commissary, child care, or get health care. The Department of Defense issues eligible dependents and other eligible individuals a distinct identification card (ID) authorizing them to receive Uniformed Services benefits and privileges. Dependents of active duty and retired service members receive a tan colored ID Card (DD Form 1173). The tan ID cards authorize access to commissary exchange and certain morale, welfare and recreation privileges. Are you a new military family member trying to get a new military ID card for the first time? Use this guide.
Veterans Beware: Common Errors in VA Decisions That Can be Appealed
Upon reading a VA’s rating decision, the veteran may feel like they have lost the battle. However, these decisions often contain many errors that a veteran can bring up on appeal. In other words, the errors made by the VA in a rating decision may mean the battle isn’t really over.
E-Benefits
Is a web portal managed jointly by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs and the United States Department of Defense to provide Service members, Veterans and eligible dependents the ability to manage their VA and DoD benefits, claims, and military documents online.
The Army Retirement Services Office
The Army Retirement Services Office develops Army policy and oversees Army programs worldwide that prepare Soldiers and their Families for retirement, assist survivors of Soldiers who die on active duty, and serve Retired Soldiers, surviving spouses, and their Families until death in order to comply with federal laws, encourage Retired Soldiers to be Soldiers For Life, and improve recruiting and retention. In accordance with AR 600-8-7, Army Retirement Services develops Army policy and procedures for the Survivor Benefit Plan (SBP) program; publishes Army Echoes, the newsletter for Retired Soldiers and surviving spouses and their families; develops policy for the operation of the Army Retirement Services Program; and administers the Army Chief of Staff's (CSA) Retiree Council.
Veteran Service Records
Military Record Requests Using Standard Form 180
DBQ Forms
Disability Benefits Questionnaires (DBQs) are medical examination forms used to capture essential information for evaluating disability compensation and/or pension claims.
VA Forms
Veteran forms
Filing a Claim Online
File and Process Claims Online
Prepare Your Love Ones: What a Beneficiary Should Know in Advance of Your Passing
Sometimes the most difficult conversations to have are the most important, like helping your loved ones be prepared for when you die. Talking to your family about this topic beforehand is a way to show that you care, and it will help to ease the financial burdens they may face. Military retirees can have beneficiaries for their arrears of pay (AOP). This article is intended to help you prepare your AOP beneficiary to file a claim when the time comes
Qualifying for a Disability Retirement
Your disability percentage, which will be assigned by the Physical Evaluation Board, will determine whether your disability qualifies you for retirement or separation:
VA Benefits for Seniors
Elderly Veterans may be eligible for a wide-variety of benefits available to all U.S. military Veterans. VA benefits include disability compensation, pension, education and training, health care, home loans, insurance, vocational rehabilitation and employment, and burial. See our Veterans page for an overview of the benefits available to all Veterans.
Guide to Financial Assistance for Military Families
These organizations serve your needs as a thank-you for serving your country.
Sesame Street for Military Families
Access our Little Children, Big Challenges family support services, kids learning sites, and other resources for military children, which help all families of military service build the skills they need to be resilient.
site administration
site map
Contents © 2024 Triangle Veterans Wellness Outreach Center Inc. •
Church Website Builder by mychurchwebsite.net
•
Privacy Policy
