Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'http-equiv': 'content-type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=UTF-8'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'Our specialist Orthopaedic Choice team offer a thorough assessment of the presenting condition, this may include further investigations such as x-ray or scans. This will helps establish a diagnosis and identify the treatment options available to you.'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'concrete5'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://www.southernhealth.nhs.uk/application/files/6516/2495/7803/win8-thumbnail.png'}

Body Text:
Orthopaedic Choice :: Southern Health NHS Foundation Trust
Skip to main content
Skip to navigation
Skip to mobile navigation
Skip to accessibility tools
Useful links
Social links
Search bar
Mobile navigation
Services A - Z
Close social links
Help in a crisis
Search:
Close search bar
Services A - Z
Help in a crisis
Close useful links
Home
Our services
Our services
Return to previous menu
Our services
A-Z list of services
Our main sites
Mental Health services
Physical Health Services
Children and Family Services
Specialist and Forensic Mental Health Services
Isle of Wight Services
Hampshire CAMHS
Learning Disability Services
Your care
Your care
Return to previous menu
Your care
What to expect when coming to our sites
Coronavirus information
Your privacy and dignity
Addressing your concerns and complaints
Your information and rights
Your information and rights
Return to previous menu
Your information and rights
Your information
Mental Health Act
Safeguarding children and adults
Acronym buster
We are a smoke free Trust
Managing medicines
Electronic prescribing
Carers and families
Carers and families
Return to previous menu
Carers and families
Triangle of Care
Our Commitment to our Carers
Advice and information for carers
Advice and information for carers
Return to previous menu
Advice and information for carers
Who are Carers
Carer frequently asked questions and answers
Carers Booklets
Get involved as a carer
Get involved as a carer
Return to previous menu
Get involved as a carer
Projects to get Involved with
About us
About us
Return to previous menu
About us
News and views
The Trust
The Trust
Return to previous menu
The Trust
Our structure
Our strategy
Our documents
Quality Improvement
Diversity and Inclusion
Freedom of information
Statutory information and compliance statements
Transforming our services
Our Board
Our Board
Return to previous menu
Our Board
Meet our Executive Directors
Meetings and papers
Committees
Our Governors
Our Governors
Return to previous menu
Our Governors
Meetings and papers
Research
Research
Return to previous menu
Research
Memory Assessment and Research Centre
Research and Innovation
Bringing together community, mental health and learning disability services
Have your say
Have your say
Return to previous menu
Have your say
Become a member
Carers and Patients Support Hub
Contact us
Addressing your concerns and complaints
Ways to get involved
Ways to get involved
Return to previous menu
Ways to get involved
People Participation Team
Co-production in Quality Improvement
Brighterway Charity
Transforming our services
Get Involved with Research and Innovation
Events
Your feedback
Your feedback
Return to previous menu
Your feedback
NHS National Friends and Family Test
Carers Feedback
Sharing a compliment
CQC Community Mental Health Survey
Work for us
Work for us
Return to previous menu
Work for us
Mental health nursing
General nursing
Allied Health Professionals
Medical Workforce
Health Care Support Workers
International Nursing
Ways into Work
Latest Vacancies
Orthopaedic Choice
Menu
You are here:
Home
Our services
A-Z list of services
Orthopaedic Choice
Health and wellbeing
The following information may be useful to help you self-manage your condition.
Weight management programme commissioned by Hampshire County Council.
It is a free 12-week course with three options.
Weight loss face to face, weight loss digital based or physical activity (launching in September 2023)
“Gloji move more” which can be completed online or face to face. You can be referred via your GP, a healthcare referral form or by self-referring online.
Find out more by going to
Gloji | Personalised Weight Loss | 12 Week Programme
.
Italk
-
Learn simple and effective ways to look after your everyday wellbeing and stay well. They offer amongst other things evidence based treatment for depression and anxiety, but you do not need a diagnosis to self-refer.
Telephone
023 8038 3920
.
Better Health
- No matter how much you do, physical activity is good for your body and mind. Adults should aim to be active every day. Some is good – more is better still.  A daily brisk walk can boost your energy, lift your mood and make everyday activities easier.
Smoke free Hampshire
- Your stop smoking service for Hampshire. You can self-refer through the web site or call the Quitline on
01264 563039.
Versusarthritis
We're Versus Arthritis. We'll never stop, until no one has to tolerate living with the pain, fatigue and isolation of arthritis.
Persistent pain management
https://escape-pain.org/
- Great advice and exercise programme to help with knee and hip pain
https://www.paintoolkit.org/resources/for-patients -
Online resource for patients
Flippin' Pain
Flippin’ Pain™ is a public health campaign with a clear goal: To change the way we think about, talk about and treat persistent pain. Flippin’ your understanding of pain could change the lives of you and your loved ones forever.
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C48f_Sen4d8
- Lorimer Moseley explains ‘Why Things Hurt’
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=C_3phB93rvI
- Understanding pain in less than 5 minutes.
https://my.livewellwithpain.co.uk/
- A wide range of support and help.
https://painconcern.org.uk/
- Support and resources for people with pain.
Exercise and Advice
The following information may be useful to help you self-manage your condition:
The
Chartered Society of Physiotherapy (CSP)
for resources on:
shoulder pain
back pain
head/neck pain
knee/foot pain
elbow pain
hip pain
pain management
Exercise information from the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy
including videos, booklets and exercise sheets. There is also advice if your condition deterioates.
Pain management advice from the Chartered Society of Physiotherapy
including leafets on foot, knee, shoulder, neck and back pain, tennis elbow and carpal tunnel.
MSKReform
- Health and well being advice.
NHS Choices
- many conditions have videos of exercises and self management advice.
Live well NHS
- Advice, tips and tools to help you make the best choices about your health and wellbeing.
Escape Pain
- a group rehabilitation programme for people with chronic joint pain. It is available free of charge on line or via the app store.  It offers two programmes; knees and hips and backs.
Useful resources for you whilst you wait for your appointment
Shared desicion making tools for Dupuytren's Carpal tunnel syndrome Knee O.A. Hip O.A.
Physical activity guidelines: adults and older adults
Frozen Shoulder - Information on You tube for patients regarding best options for treatment.
About the service
Welcome to Orthopaedic Choice
We are a team of Clinical Specialist Therapists and GPs with a particular interest in Orthopaedics and musculoskeletal conditions based in South-West Hampshire. Our role is to help you understand your condition, and to support and guide you to the best way forward.
What we do
What should I Expect at my First Appointment?
This may be by telephone, video or face to face. The assessment aims to find out more about you and your condition, including treatments and medications that have been tried already and investigations that have been done. This helps us to understand what is important to you and how our service can help you to manage your symptoms. We will discuss your options, and as a result we may agree with you one or several of the following as an outcome:
•    no additional treatment is required.
•    signpost you to our website or other resources for further self-help information.
•    referral to Physiotherapy.
•    request investigations e.g. X-Rays, ultrasound scans or MRI scans. For some conditions these may be helpful, but for others they may not influence the long-term management and be unhelpful.
•    link with your GP to consider further test(s) or alteration of medications.
•    provide a corticosteroid injection for certain conditions.
•    referral for a surgical opinion.
•    referral to the Pain Management Team.
How can I prepare for my appointment to get the most from it?
•    Make sure you know where you are going and the parking options, a few of our sites may require cash payment for parking.
•    Wear suitable clothing so the clinician can examine you thoroughly.
•    A list of your current medications can be helpful.
•    Think about what you are hoping to achieve from your appointment. Some people find it helps to write a few questions down as a reminder.
•    You may find it useful to visit our website before your appointment. It contains a variety of information that could be useful to help you manage your condition or understand the treatment options.
Accessing the service
Contact your GP or healthcare professional about accessing this service. They will be able to talk through your options and make a referral to our service if it’s right for you. Once we receive the referral it will be reviewed by a member of the team and you will offered the most appropriate appointment for you.
Contact information
For appointment and referral queries please:
Telephone: 0300 003 0806
Email address
outpatients@southernhealth.nhs.uk
You must have a browser that supports iframes to view the Care Opinion widget
Back to A-Z list of services
Southern Health is proud to be a University Hospital Trust
.
A - Z of services
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
I
J
K
L
M
N
O
P
Q
R
S
T
U
V
W
X
Y
Z
Useful information
Freedom of information
Modern Slavery Act Statement
Accessibility
Privacy notice
Southern Health NHS Foundation Trust
Sterne 7, Tatchbury Mount, Calmore, SO40 2RZ
Telephone:
02382 310000
The Southern Health Charity
Accessibility tools
Show
accessibility tools
Text size:
Increase text size
Decrease text size
Reset text size
Contrast:
Black and white
Pale contrast
Blue contrast
Beige contrast
High contrast
Reset contrast
Frank Ltd.
Return to header
