Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'content-type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Joomla! - Open Source Content Management'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'initial-scale = 1.0, maximum-scale = 1.0, user-scalable = no, width = device-width'}

Body Text:
Home - Triangle Empowerment Center
Home
Events
Past Events
Gala
Gallery
Awards Gala 2018 Gallery
Spirit, Life, and Artistic Expression 2016
MSM Summit 2015 Gallery
Calendar
Studies
Video
Programs
Tele Medical Mental Health and You
Love the Glove
FREE In-Home Test
Ladies of the T (Transgender)
Ground Up Housing Solutions
COVID-19
PrEP
TEC PrEP Navigation Program
FREE PrEP Appointment Assessment
TEC PrEP Brief Presentation
PrEP Flyers
Housing
Support Groups
Volunteers
Volunteer Application
About Us
Our Partners
Our Sponsors
Contact Us
Support Us
Transgender Day of Resilience and Resistance 2015
Transgender Day of Resilience and Resistance 2015
Transgender Day of Resilience and Resistance 2015
Transgender Day of Resilience and Resistance 2015
Welcome to Triangle Empowerment Center, Inc.
We are a local nonprofit community-based organization that serves the Durham, Raleigh, Chapel Hill and surrounding area. Our organization mainly focuses on minority rural health disparities. We also hold events for our regular clients.
Our events are divided into 3 categories: fun social event, educational events, and volunteering. We do things like bowling, movies, dinners, game nights, dancing, mini-golf, beach trips, retreats, cook outs, volunteering, seminars, workshops, etc. Our events are drug free and alcohol free.
What’s the Catch?
To put it simply, there are none. There are no membership fees, no initiation, no minimum requirement of meetings/events to attend, etc. Everyone is welcome to seek services at Triangle Empowerment Center or to come to our events. Because lots of people of color, shape, sexual orientation, religion, and culture make up the community we serve, we don’t clique or exclude anyone. These different people also make up the staff and volunteers of Triangle Empowerment Center. We’re about having fun and that everyone is cool when you be yourself. New people are always welcome! We have people sign up for the email list every week. Even though Triangle Empowerment Center's services are primarily geared towards minority MSMs, anyone is always welcome. No matter if you’re straight, gay, lesbian, transgender,etc, we welcome you. The only requirement is that you come as you are.
Find Us on Facebook
FREE In-Home HIV Test
copyright © 2024. Triangle Empowerment Center • All Rights Reserved.
Triangle Empowerment Center is a 501(c)(3) tax-exempt nonprofit organization #45-5610993. All donations are fully deductible.
Mobile-friendly web design by
IYI Creative Services
. HostPapa
