Meta Information:
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'name': 'Keywords', 'content': 'triupa, triuxpa, triuxpa book club, triangle ux, triangle usability, uxpa, raleigh ux, ux raleigh, ux durham, durham ux, chapel hill ux, ux chapel hill, nc ux, north carolina ux, ux nc, ux north carolina, user experience nc'}
{'name': 'Description', 'content': 'The Triangle UXPA was founded in 2005 and is the North Carolina Raleigh/Durham/Chapel Hill chapter of the User Experience Professionals Association. We are focused on building and supporting the local community of practitioners who craft great user experiences — which include interaction designers, visual designers, information architects, content strategists, and user researchers.'}

Body Text:
Triangle UXPA | Triangle User Experience Professionals Association | Raleigh, Durham, Chapel Hill
Log in
Home
Events
Upcoming Events
Call For Speakers
Jobs
Blog
Join
Membership
Slack Channel
About
Code of Conduct
Contact
TriUXPA for Social Impact
Triangle UXPA
The Triangle User Experience Professionals Association was founded in 2006 and is the North Carolina Raleigh/Durham/Chapel Hill chapter of the User Experience Professionals Association. We are focused on building and supporting the local community of practitioners who craft great user experiences.
Learn More
Become a Member
Save on events by joining the Triangle UXPA. Our annual rate for professionals is currently $35.00, and students are
free
.
Join today!
Upcoming events
Spring BUI and Executive Council Meet and Greet
16 May 2024 6:00 PM
•
Boxyard RTP
UX Y'all Conference 2024
19 Sep 2024 12:00 PM
•
Marbles Kids Museum | 201 E Hargett St, Raleigh, NC 27601
All Events ›
Highlights from the Fireside Chat on Design in the C-Suite with Andy Vitale
We were able to spend some quality time with Andy as he unraveled the mysteries of what it looks like for design professionals in the C-Suite. Knowing that the number of designers that make it to that level is few and far between, he shed some light on how to be prepared when the opportunity to represent our profession at that level presents itself.
Job listings
Assessment and User Experience Researcher at Duke University Libraries
02 May 2024 9:58 AM
Anonymous
Senior Product Designer at ShareFile
26 Mar 2024 7:56 AM
Anonymous
Sr. UX Designer
22 Mar 2024 2:48 PM
Anonymous
All Jobs ›
Volunteer With Us!
There are numerous ways to volunteer with TriUXPA! You can volunteer on our
Board of Directors
or sign up to be one of our
Volunteers
(Ad-hoc or Embedded in a Team). Volunteering with TriUXPA is a great way to support our UX community and network with some of its brightest and most active members. We’re always looking for eager volunteers to help our community thrive! No matter your years of UX experience, we would like to have you join us. Please check out our list of different volunteer roles to see how you can help, and/or feel free to reach out to
contact@triuxpa.org
for more information about volunteering.
Blog posts
Event Recap | Generative AI and FluidMemory Demo
05 Feb 2024 3:44 PM
Anonymous
What UXers Do and Earn: Findings from the TriUXPA Salary Survey for 2021
16 Jan 2022 2:52 PM
Jacob Geib-Rosch
Ask the Experts: UX Career Growth Models
12 Jan 2022 4:18 PM
Jacob Geib-Rosch
All Articles ›
Triangle UXPA Sponsors
We want to thank all of the great companies that support the Triangle UXPA.
Become a Sponsor
Copyright © Triangle User Experience Professionals Association
Powered by
Wild Apricot
Membership Software
