Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Triangle Grace- Home'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://trianglegrace.org/'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=Edge'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}

Body Text:
Triangle Grace- Home
J
Join our
LIVE STREAM
every Sunday morning at 10:15 a.m.
I'm New
Plan your visit
Sunday
Sunday School
Music
Nursery
Youth
About Us
What We Believe
Leadership
Ministries
Join a small group
Ministry Teams
Find Support
Triangle Grace Preschool
WATCH
Live Stream
Sermons
Get Involved
GIVE
Triangle Grace Communications
Church Calendar
TGC Church Center App
WELCOME TO OUR CHURCH
We're glad you came!
Come Worship with us!
Sunday Schedule
Discipleship Hour:  9:00 AM
Worship Service/Livestream Time:  10:15 AM
Our Mission:  Love God...Love Others...Serve the World
:
:
:
:
Watch Livestream
May 12 - Happy Mother's Day
"Jesus, Our Stronghold"        ...Jeff Spainhour
Scripture
Worship Resource
Watch Here
Sermons
Explore Adult Sunday School at TGC
Join a small group today
Click here to help us get to know you better
Click here to Donate
Service Times
Sunday Morning Service: 10:15 AM/ 10:15 Livestream
More Info
Sunday Clubs  for Kids 9:00AM
Youth Sunday  School 9:000AM
Adult Sunday School 9:00AM
More info
Our Location
5001 Tudor Place
Durham, NC  27713
Ph. 919-544-2872
office@trianglegrace.org
Office Hours:  8 AM - 4 PM Monday - Friday
More info
About Us
We are a church that is dedicated to serving others and serving God. This is the core of our vision and our mission.
More info
Contact Us
We would love to hear from you. Feel free to give us a shout and connect with us.
More info
Submit a prayer request by
clicking here
Meet Lori Hicks,
Director of Music
Looking to Sign Up?
Click Here



Meet Joe Bustamante,
Director of Young Adults & Welcome
A MESSAGE FROM OUR PASTOR
Welcome to Triangle Grace Church! Thank you for checking out our website.
We would consider it a great privilege if you join us for worship in the coming days and make Triangle Grace your church home. We are striving to create a culture of invitation, discipleship, intergenerational relationships, and missional impact centered on Jesus Christ through intentional communities. We hold to a high view of scripture, a realistic view of ourselves, and possess a compassionate heart for the world.  We celebrate the work Christ has accomplished for us and believe he is making a difference in us and through us in the Triangle region and beyond. We trust he will in your life too as you join with us.
With Warm Regards,
Pastor Kris Perkins
Senior Pastor
UPCOMING EVENTS
Come and get involved!
View Calendar
Get our Church Center App on your device
Join us for a Bulls game
May 10 at 6:30 PM
The Senior Adult Ministry Teams invites everyone to attend a Durham Bulls game on Friday, May 10 at 6:35 pm.  We are once again on the third base line under the overhang!  Tickets cost $19 each ($20 if paying by credit card). Contact Penny Bitsas if you have any questions, pbitsas@gmail.com. Call the office to get a ticket. We have 4 left! 919-544-2872.
Spring Brunch
May 12 after worship
Join us on Sunday, May 12 for a brunch in the Family Life Center after the 10:15 AM service! Of course, it is Mother’s Day and we delight in celebrating our mom’s among us, but we really want to take the opportunity and rejoice in our whole church family that God has given us from the youngest to the oldest – children, youth, young adults, singles, moms, dads, grandparents, and great grandparents alike! We thank God for the intergenerational church family he has given us! The brunch is brought to you by the Men’s Ministry of the church and will be a yummy mix of breakfast and lunch items!
Register here
Membership class
Begins May 19
Want to deepen your relationship with Triangle Grace Church in the coming year? Join us for a 6-week experience as we explore together the fellowship, theology, and ministries of TGC. We will consider what it means to live out a life of faith as a community considering the history of our church, our Presbyterian roots, theological essentials, growth groups, service opportunities, and engagement with the culture around us. Even more, we will grow together in friendship as we share our own faith journeys with one another week to week. Those who would like to become a member (we call them “Covenant Partners”) can do so at the end of More Grace. More Grace will meet over lunch from 12:00-1:30 PM beginning May 19.
Sign up
Our Preschool is Hiring
Apply below!
Triangle Grace Preschool is hiring! Are you a gentle leader looking for a happy place to work and collaborate with others? Triangle Grace Preschool is hiring co-teachers to work in our program 2-5 mornings a week from 8:30 AM – 12:30 PM. If you enjoy working with children ages 2-5 in a Christian atmosphere where children can grow and develop through playful learning and hands on experience, we would love to talk with you! Qualifications include a college degree (early childhood educaon preferred), experience working with young children and First Aid/CPR certification.
Apply Here
Triangle Conference
on Theology & Culture
The Triangle Conference on Theology & Culture is a new initiative by Triangle Grace Church intended to explore cultural issues from a biblical worldview.  The first conference, A Conversation About Human Identity, will take place on the evenings of June 25-27 and will help attendees navigate conversations on difficult issues. Speakers including Dr. Dennis Hollinger, a former president of Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary and professor of Christian Ethics, will explore how our Christian faith informs how we think about about sexuality and transhumanism. Learn more and register below.  Look out for more information over the next few weeks!
Register
Vacation Bible School Registration is Now Open
Tuesday through Thursday, June 18-20 from 5:30-8 pm
Mark your calendars now for Vacation Bible School at TGC! VBS is for kids, ages 4-11, with opportunities for Middle and Senior High Youth to be tour guides!  We'll have music, crafts, Bible skits and games and explore the wonderful world God made through our theme:  STELLAR: Shine Jesus' Light. When life is hard, when people are sad, when you are filled with joy, when people need help; shine Jesus' light!
Get registered today!
View all signups
Opportunities
Loving God, Loving Others, Serving the World
A
Adult Ministry
Adult ministry is a chance for a group of adults to come together and have a chance to join in fellowship with one another.
More info
Men's Ministry
Women's ministry
Join a small group
C
Children's Ministry
Loving care for our littles, elementary clubs with study, games and fun, and family focused events through the year are all available at Triangle Grace!
More info
M
Missions Ministry
Our Missions Ministry is dedicated to
providing oversight for the ministries and missionaries we support through a variety of mission organizations.  Current support includes Wycliffe Bible Translators, Haiti Outreach Ministries, Navigators, Youth Conference Ministries, Family Health Ministries, Staff of Hope, as well as various missionaries.
More info
Y
Youth Ministry
We invite you to take part in our youth community and get involved with us through worship, youth group, bible study, sunday school and missions.
More info
M
Music Ministry
TGC offers a blend of traditional hymnals and contemporary worship songs in our worship services. Our desire is to lead the congregation as we worship our God through music thus offering our songs direct to our Lord and Savior.
More info
S
Support Ministry
We have a variety of programs that meet regularly.  All are welcome – whether church-goer or not.
More info
TGC E-News
Subscribe so we can keep in touch!
Subscribe
TGC



Main Office   :
5001 Tudor Place Durham, NC  27713
:   Phone: (919) 544 2872
Office Hours   :   Monday-Friday 8 AM - 4 PM  :
Office@trianglegrace.org
Triangle Grace Church © 2022
