Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'content': 'Divi v.4.23.4', 'name': 'generator'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 6.5.3'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0'}

Body Text:
Triangle Rails to Trails Conservancy | supporting safety, signage improvements, and volunteer projects for the American Tobacco Trail
Home
About Us
Membership
Our History
FAQs
Flickr Group
Our Meetings
Our Board
Trails and Greenways
American Tobacco Trail (ATT)
Eagle Spur Trail
Links to Trails Sites
Trail Etiquette
The Future 501 Corridor
2024 Projects
Volunteer
Directions to TRTC Work Sites
Contact
Elected Officials
Mailing Address
About TRTC
Founded in 1989, the Triangle Rails to Trails Conservancy (TRTC) a state chartered, non-profit organization that accomplishes much of it’s work through volunteer efforts. Its purpose is to work with local and state government officials to preserve local abandoned railroad corridors for future transportation and other interim uses such as recreational trails. Since 1998, TRTC volunteers have put in over 8,800 hours in cleaning up, resurfacing and maintaining the American Tobacco Trail (ATT) in Durham, Chatham and Wake Counties.
Our current focus is supporting safety and signage improvements for the American Tobacco Trail, arranging volunteer projects and providing feedback to local trail managers on problems or proposed changes.
Learn More
Membership
Volunteer
ATT Trail Maps
American Tobacco Trail
(Durham & Greenways PDF)
American Tobacco Trail
(Chatham & Wake Sections PDF)
Latest News
New ATT Connector at Dallas Street
Jan 9, 2024
For several years we’ve been working with the Parks and Public Works staffs in Durham to put in a sidewalk connector from Dallas Street. In the next few weeks the City is scheduled to do a major clean-up of the existing dirt culvert to remove small trees, brush and...
read more
Trail Clean-up-Fayetteville Rd. Section
Jan 31, 2024
Facebook Friends of the ATT, plans to do its next clean up on Saturday, February 17 at 9am!! Please join us as we restore the natural beauty of our section of the trail, where it crosses Fayetteville St near Fayetteville Street Elementary School in south Durham....
read more
UPCOMING CLOSURES on ATT
Jan 31, 2024
Upcoming Bridge Repairs on the American Tobacco Trail Work is beginning soon to repair and update the rails and support systems for several bridges in the Wake County section of the American Tobacco Trail. Please note there will be both full and partial closures of...
read more
Fountains at Pittard Sears closed
Nov 28, 2023
With the very cold overnights ushering in Winter we had to close down the fountain for this year. Weather permitting we'll re-open it around mid-March.
read more
Update on Eagle Spur Trail Project – November 2023
Nov 5, 2023
As some of you may know, TRTC has been involved in a multi-year project to replace 3 large (36” diam.) drainage culverts in the mid-section of this trail. This has not been an easy project and has been delayed several times by high lake levels and the fact that the...
read more
Trail Workday on November 18
Oct 31, 2023
Alison Baillie is leading a short workday on Saturday November 18th, at 8am to clean up the area where the ATT crosses Fayetteville Street. They will be meeting where the trail crosses Fayetteville St near Fayetteville St Elementary School. Volunteers will follow the...
read more
Closure on Section of ATT Connector
Mar 29, 2023
The Riddle Road Trail, between Alfred St and Riddle Rd, will be closed beginning March 28th for approximately 30 days. Please make alternate plans for transportation and recreation during the closure. Please keep a safe distance from all equipment and machinery and...
read more
Closure on a section of the ATT
Dec 4, 2022
From November 28th to ~ December 20th the ATT will be under repair from Dunhill Drive to NC 54. See attached file for the recommended re-routes.
read more
Update on Eagle Spur Trail Project
Feb 27, 2022
As some of you may know, TRTC has been involved in a multi-year project to replace 3 large (36” diam.) drainage culverts in the mid-section of this trail. This has not been an easy project and has been delayed several times by high lake levels and the fact that the...
read more
Parking for Horse Trailers at the ATT
Feb 22, 2022
There are 4 facilities on the ATT where horse trailers can be parked --Scott-King Road parking area (~Mile Post 10) From Scott-King Road parking is accessed via a short dirt driveway which is about 500' east of the ATT. No water is available at this area. --New Hope...
read more
Winter Trail Clean-Up February 5
Jan 5, 2022
Harriet Sansone's volunteer group has scheduled a Winter Clean-up for Saturday, Feb 5th - lots of advance notice! The group will meet at 9 am at the trailhead as it crosses Fayetteville Rd just north of Food Lion at 3022 Fayetteville Rd, Durham. Feel free to park in...
read more
Upcoming ATT Workday in Durham –October 16, 2021
Oct 10, 2021
SO many of you have asked about the next Trail cleanup - so here is the info! Sat, 10/16 - 9 am Park on the side of Food Lion, 3022 Fayetteville St. Meet at the Trailhead as it crosses Fayetteville about 25 yds up the street. You don't need to bring ANYTHING except...
read more
« Older Entries
© 2024 Triangle Rails to Trails Conservancy
