Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=UTF-8'}
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge,chrome=1'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'apple-mobile-web-app-capable', 'content': 'yes'}
{'name': 'Author', 'content': 'Anna Swartwood House'}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': 'faculty,diversity,history,college-of-arts-and-sciences,the-conversation'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'University of South Carolina'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'The long history of how Jesus came to resemble a white European'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'No one knows exactly what Jesus looked like, and there are no known images of him from his lifetime. Art history professor Anna Swartwood House writes in The Conversation that the portrayal of Jesus as a white, European man has come under renewed scrutiny during this period of introspection over the legacy of racism in society.'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.sc.edu/uofsc/posts/2020/07/conversation_white_jesus.php'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://www.sc.edu/uofsc/images/banner_images/2020/07_banner_conversation_white_jesus.jpg'}
{'property': 'fb:app_id', 'content': '41091071801'}
{'name': 'twitter:site', 'content': '@UofSC'}

Body Text:
The long history of how Jesus came to resemble a white European - USC News & Events | University of South Carolina
Skip to Content
University of South Carolina Home
Search University of South Carolina
University of South Carolina Navigation
Search sc.edu
Gateways For:
STUDENTS
FACULTY & STAFF
ALUMNI
PARENTS & FAMILIES
Calendar
Map
Directory
Apply
Give
Search sc.edu
Search
Study
Study at South Carolina
Majors and Degrees at South Carolina
Undergraduate Education
Graduate Education
Online Education
Colleges and Schools
Libraries and Collections
Continuing Education
Experience
Experience South Carolina
Living Here
Dining
Clubs and Organizations
Sports and Outdoors
Arts and Entertainment
Inclusive Excellence
University 101
My USC Experience
Academic Support
Career Prep
Study Abroad
Visit
Visit Campus
Individual Visits
Group Visits
Self-Guided Visits
Virtual Tour
Explore Columbia
Campus Map
Admissions
Admissions at South Carolina
Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate School Admissions
University Applications
Tuition and Aid
Research
Research at South Carolina
Research Opportunities
Breakthrough Research
Partnership Opportunities
About
About South Carolina
South Carolina at a Glance
Our Leadership
Offices and Divisions
Signature Events
Our History
Directory Search
Employment
News & Events
USC News & Events
Recent Stories
In the News
Inside Carolina
Carolinian
University Events
Athletics
Study
Study at South Carolina
Majors and Degrees at South Carolina
Undergraduate Education
Graduate Education
Online Education
Colleges and Schools
College of Arts and Sciences
Darla Moore School of Business
College of Education
College of Engineering and Computing
The Graduate School
College of Hospitality, Retail and Sport Management
Joseph F. Rice School of Law
College of Information and Communications
School of Medicine Columbia
School of Medicine Greenville
School of Music
College of Nursing
College of Pharmacy
Arnold School of Public Health
College of Social Work
South Carolina Honors College
Libraries and Collections
Thomas Cooper Library
Digital Collections
Educational Film Collection
Elliot White Springs Business Library
Karesh Law Library
Library Annex and Conservation Facility
Music Library
Moving Images Research Collections
Irvin Department of Rare Books and Special Collections
School of Medicine Library
South Carolina Political Collections
South Caroliniana Library
Continuing Education
Experience
Experience South Carolina
Living Here
Dining
Clubs and Organizations
Sports and Outdoors
Arts and Entertainment
Inclusive Excellence
University 101
My USC Experience
My USC Experience Engagements
Academic Support
Career Prep
Study Abroad
Visit
Visit Campus
Individual Visits
Tour Tips
Guest Accessibility Services
Group Visits
Self-Guided Visits
Virtual Tour
Explore Columbia
Campus Map
Admissions
Admissions at South Carolina
Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate School Admissions
University Applications
Tuition and Aid
Research
Research at South Carolina
Research Opportunities
Breakthrough Research
Breakthrough Research
Partnership Opportunities
About
About South Carolina
South Carolina at a Glance
Our Leadership
University President
Request for Remarks
Presidential Communications
A New Beginning
2022 Holiday Card Design Contest
Presidential Investiture
University Officials
Offices and Divisions
Signature Events
Carolina Welcome
Convocation
Convocation RSVP
Family Weekend
Family Weekend Registration
Family Weekend Schedule
Football Game Information
USC Homecoming
Imagine Carolina
Awards Day
Awards Day Recipients
Commencement
Our History
Directory Search
Employment
Student Employment
News & Events
USC News & Events
Recent Stories
In the News
Inside Carolina
Subscription Confirmation
Carolinian
University Events
Athletics
Tools & Resources
Calendar
Map
Directory
Apply
Give
Student Gateway
Faculty & Staff Gateway
Parents & Families Gateway
Alumni Gateway
The long history of how Jesus came to resemble a white European
Posted on: July 22, 2020; Updated on: July 22, 2020
By
                        								Anna Swartwood House,
houseas@mailbox.sc.edu
No one knows exactly what Jesus looked like, and there are no known images of him
                           from his lifetime. Art history professor Anna Swartwood House writes in The Conversation
                           about
the complicated history of the images of Christ and how
historically they have served many purposes.
The portrayal of Jesus as a white, European man has come under renewed scrutiny during
                        this period of introspection over the legacy of racism in society.
As protesters called for the removal of Confederate statues in the U.S., activist
Shaun King
went further, suggesting that murals and artwork depicting “white Jesus” should “come
                        down.”
His concerns about the depiction of Christ and how it is used to uphold notions of
white supremacy
are not isolated.
Prominent
scholars
and the archbishop of Canterbury
have called to reconsider
Jesus’ portrayal as a white man.
As a
European Renaissance art historian
, I study the evolving image of Jesus Christ from A.D. 1350 to 1600. Some of the
best-known depictions of Christ
, from Leonardo da Vinci’s “Last Supper” to Michelangelo’s “Last Judgment” in the
                        Sistine Chapel, were produced during this period.
Sallman’s ‘Head of Christ’.
But the all-time most-reproduced image of Jesus comes from another period. It is
Warner Sallman’s light-eyed, light-haired “Head of Christ” from 1940
. Sallman, a former commercial artist who created art for advertising campaigns, successfully
                        marketed this picture worldwide.
Through Sallman’s partnerships with two Christian publishing companies, one Protestant
                        and one Catholic, the Head of Christ came to be included on everything from prayer
                        cards to stained glass, faux oil paintings, calendars, hymnals and night lights.
Sallman’s painting culminates a long tradition of white Europeans creating and disseminating
                        pictures of Christ made in their own image.
In search of the holy face
The historical Jesus likely had the brown eyes and skin of other
first-century Jews from Galilee
, a region in biblical Israel. But no one knows exactly what Jesus looked like. There
                        are no known images of Jesus from his lifetime, and while the Old Testament Kings
                        Saul and David are explicitly called
tall
and
handsome
in the Bible, there is little indication of Jesus’ appearance in the Old or New Testaments.
Even these texts are contradictory: The Old Testament prophet Isaiah reads that the
                        coming savior “
had no beauty or majesty
,” while the Book of Psalms claims he was “
fairer than the children of men
,” the word “fair” referring to physical beauty.
The earliest images of Jesus Christ emerged in the first through third centuries A.D.,
                        amidst concerns about idolatry. They were less about capturing the actual appearance
                        of Christ than about clarifying his role as a ruler or as a savior.
To clearly indicate these roles, early Christian artists often relied on syncretism,
                        meaning they combined visual formats from other cultures.
Probably the most popular syncretic image is Christ as
the Good Shepherd
, a beardless, youthful figure based on pagan representations of Orpheus, Hermes and
                        Apollo.
In other common depictions, Christ wears the toga or other attributes of the emperor.
                        The theologian
Richard Viladesau
argues that the mature bearded Christ, with long hair in the “Syrian” style,
combines characteristics
of the Greek god Zeus and the Old Testament figure Samson, among others.
Christ as self-portraitist
The first portraits of Christ, in the sense of authoritative likenesses, were believed
                        to be self-portraits: the miraculous “image not made by human hands,” or acheiropoietos.
Acheiropoietos.
Tretiakov Gallery, Moscow
This belief originated in the seventh century A.D., based on a legend that Christ
                        healed King Abgar of Edessa in modern-day Urfa, Turkey, through a miraculous image
                        of his face, now known as the Mandylion.
A similar legend adopted by Western Christianity between the 11th and 14th centuries
                        recounts how, before his death by crucifixion, Christ left an impression of his face
                        on the veil of Saint Veronica, an image known as the volto santo, or “Holy Face.”
These two images, along with other similar relics, have formed the basis of iconic
                        traditions about the “true image” of Christ.
From the perspective of art history, these artifacts reinforced an already standardized
                        image of a bearded Christ with shoulder-length, dark hair.
In the Renaissance, European artists began to combine the icon and the portrait, making
                        Christ in their own likeness. This happened for a variety of reasons, from identifying
                        with the human suffering of Christ to commenting on one’s own creative power.
The 15th-century Sicilian painter Antonello da Messina, for example, painted small
                        pictures of the suffering Christ formatted exactly like his
portraits of regular people
, with the subject positioned between a fictive parapet and a plain black background
                        and signed “Antonello da Messina painted me.”
The 16th-century German artist Albrecht Dürer blurred the line between the holy face
                        and his own image in a famous self-portrait of 1500. In this, he posed frontally like
                        an icon, with his beard and luxuriant shoulder-length hair recalling Christ’s. The
                        “AD” monogram could stand equally for “Albrecht Dürer” or “Anno Domini” – “in the
                        year of our Lord.”
In whose image?
This phenomenon was not restricted to Europe: There are 16th- and 17th-century pictures
                        of Jesus with, for example,
Ethiopian
and
Indian
features.
In Europe, however, the image of a light-skinned European Christ began to influence
                        other parts of the world through European trade and colonization.
‘Adoration of the Magi.’ Artist Andrea Mantegna.
The J. Paul Getty Museum
The Italian painter Andrea Mantegna’s “Adoration of the Magi” from A.D. 1505 features
                        three distinct magi, who, according to one
contemporary tradition
, came from Africa, the Middle East and Asia. They present expensive objects of porcelain,
                        agate and brass that would have been prized imports from China and the Persian and
                        Ottoman empires.
But Jesus’ light skin and blues eyes suggest that he is not Middle Eastern but European-born.
                        And the faux-Hebrew script embroidered on Mary’s cuffs and hemline belie a complicated
                        relationship to the Judaism of the Holy Family.
In Mantegna’s Italy,
anti-Semitic myths
were already prevalent among the majority Christian population, with Jewish people
                        often segregated to their own quarters of major cities.
Artists tried to distance Jesus and his parents from their Jewishness. Even seemingly
                        small attributes like
pierced ears
– earrings were associated with Jewish women, their removal with a conversion to
                        Christianity – could represent a transition toward the Christianity represented by
                        Jesus.
Much later, anti-Semitic forces in Europe including the Nazis would attempt to divorce
                        Jesus totally from his Judaism in favor of an
Aryan stereotype
.
White Jesus abroad
As Europeans colonized increasingly farther-flung lands, they brought a European Jesus
                        with them. Jesuit missionaries established painting schools that taught new converts
                        Christian art in a European mode.
A
small altarpiece made in the school of Giovanni Niccolò
, the Italian Jesuit who founded the “Seminary of Painters” in Kumamoto, Japan, around
                        1590, combines a traditional Japanese gilt and mother-of-pearl shrine with a painting
                        of a distinctly white, European Madonna and Child.
Nicolas Correa’s ‘The Mystic Betrothal of Saint Rose of Lima.’
Museo Nacional de Arte
In colonial Latin America – called “New Spain” by European colonists – images of a
                        white Jesus reinforced a
caste system
where white, Christian Europeans occupied the top tier, while those with darker skin
                        from perceived intermixing with native populations ranked considerably lower.
Artist Nicolas Correa’s 1695 painting of Saint Rose of Lima, the first Catholic saint
                        born in “New Spain,” shows her metaphorical marriage to a blond, light-skinned Christ.
Legacies of likeness
Scholar
Edward J. Blum
and
Paul Harvey
argue that in the centuries after European colonization of the Americas, the image
                        of a white Christ associated him with the logic of empire and could be used to
justify the oppression of Native and African Americans
.
In a multiracial but unequal America, there was a disproportionate representation
                        of a white Jesus in the media. It wasn’t only Warner Sallman’s Head of Christ that
                        was depicted widely; a large proportion of
actors who have played Jesus on television and film
have been white with blue eyes.
Pictures of Jesus historically have served many purposes, from symbolically presenting
                        his power to depicting his actual likeness. But
representation matters
, and viewers need to understand the complicated history of the images of Christ they
                        consume.
This article is republished from
The Conversation
under a Creative Commons license. Read the
original article
.
Banner image photo credit: Painting depicting transfiguration of Jesus, a story in
                           the New Testament when Jesus becomes radiant upon a mountain.
Artist Raphael /Collections Hallwyl Museum, CC BY-SA
Topics:
Faculty
,
Diversity
,
History
,
College of Arts and Sciences
,
The Conversation
Related Stories
What ancient farmers can really teach us about adapting to climate change - and how political power influences success or failure
Henry and Sylvia Yaschik Foundation supports conversation about Jewish history
Meet the Black alumnae whose contributions are commemorated on the Horseshoe
Bringing civil rights history to life
Featured in The Conversation
The Conversation
brings academic experts together with professional editors to create timely, insightful
                           content for a general audience.
Email Peggy Binette at
peggy@mailbox.sc.edu
if you are interested in sharing your work with a national audience.
UofSC Facebook
UofSC Instagram
UofSC Twitter
Colleges & Schools
Arts and Sciences
Business
Education
Engineering and Computing
The Graduate School
Hospitality, Retail and Sport Management
Information and Communications
Law
Medicine (Columbia)
Medicine (Greenville)
Music
Nursing
Pharmacy
Public Health
Social Work
South Carolina Honors College
Offices & Divisions
Employment
Undergraduate Admissions
Financial Aid and Scholarships
Bursar (fee payment)
Veterans and Military Services
Disability Resources
Access and Opportunity
Human Resources
Law Enforcement and Safety
University Libraries
All Offices and Divisions
Tools
Carolina Alert
Campus Email
my.sc.edu
Blackboard
Campus Safety and Wellness
PeopleSoft Finance
©
University of South Carolina
Privacy
Student Consumer Information
Student Consumer Information
Transparency Initiative
Civil Rights and Title IX
Digital Accessibility
Contact
Contact
©
