Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 6.5.3'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Give v3.1.1'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Elementor 3.17.3; features: e_dom_optimization, e_optimized_assets_loading, e_optimized_css_loading, additional_custom_breakpoints; settings: css_print_method-external, google_font-enabled, font_display-auto'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://uhuruchildfoundation.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/03/cropped-cropped-UHURU-SCHOOL-A-CHILD-FOUNDATION-270x270.png'}

Body Text:
Uhuru Child Foundation – Non-profit organisation established  by former Scholars of Stirling High School
Skip to content
Home
Who We Are
What We Do
Contact Us
Give
Give
Main Menu
Home
Who We Are
What We Do
Contact Us
Give
Give
The spirit of Ubuntu lives on
rasing a nation through education
"Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world."  - Nelson Mandela
Read More
Who We Are
The Uhuru School a Child Foundation is a non-profit organisation established  by former Scholars of Stirling High School, to give back to the community of the Buffalo City Metropolitan area by contributing towards ensuring equal access to quality education to scholars from underprivileged backgrounds.
The word “Uhuru” means freedom in Swahili and it is the shared belief of the Uhuru School a Child Foundation that education is indeed the key to unlock the doors of freedom.
Read More
public benefit objectives
01.
— Funding the Future
We identify underprivileged scholars with academic potential and enrol and finance their studies by mobilising funding through the organisation.
02.
— Fitting Resources
W equip the identified scholars with the necessary resources which include but are not limited to; school fees; school uniform; lunch; boarding; personal hygiene items; sporting equipment; psychological needs.
03.
— We Strengthen
To lead by example and allow scholars access to industry professionals they can be inspired by through a mentorship program and personal development support programs
04.
— We Educate
Encouraging Schools to excel academically in order to raise communities that make a difference. Uhuru as a foundation believes that we inspire schools to produce excellence.
05.
— We Provide Care
Our partners and invested stakeholders share the vision of making a difference in the lives of our beneficiaries – one child at a time.
06.
— Partnership
Through the spirit of UBUNTU we believe that it takes a village to raise a child. Our private sector partnership allows us to reach our goals.
Read More
A WORD FROM OUR PARTNERS
Inga Jakavula - Chairperson Uhuru Foundation
A wise man once said that change is the end result of all true learning. We strongly believe and live by this. My involvement in this foundation has been fulfilling as we have seen many lives changed and see children reach for their dreams.
Our impact as Uhuru Child Foundation is not a destination but a continuing journey to liberating lives and breaking down barriers to accessing quality education and quality life.
Get Involved
Lwandile Pasiwe - Treasurer Uhuru Foundation
One cannot fully express the gratitude we have towards our corporate partners and community stakeholders. The support we receive each year allows us to support the few deserving beneficiaries and we are grateful. Our stance has been that, if we can impact one child at a time, we have a start, but we we can support more than one child, we are making a meaningful difference. We urge you to get involved.
Get Involved
Partner
Be a partner and help us change lives one child and school at a time.
Your partnership is an investment to the community. We will honour participation by giving you the recognition you deserve.
Donate
Copyright © 2024 Uhuru Child Foundation
Powered by
MeD8 Media
