Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'itemprop': 'description', 'content': 'Through programs that support the entire family, the United Community Center in Milwaukee, WI aims to provide limitless opportunities to help community members reach for and achieve their goals.'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'Through programs that support the entire family, the United Community Center in Milwaukee, WI aims to provide limitless opportunities to help community members reach for and achieve their goals.'}
{'name': 'twitter:description', 'content': 'Through programs that support the entire family, the United Community Center in Milwaukee, WI aims to provide limitless opportunities to help community members reach for and achieve their goals.'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'United Community Center'}
{'name': 'twitter:title', 'content': 'United Community Center'}
{'property': 'og:image', 'content': 'https://www.unitedcc.org/media/bssn4rux/about-ucc.jpg'}
{'property': 'og:image:width', 'content': '500'}
{'property': 'og:image:height', 'content': '262'}
{'name': 'twitter:image:src', 'content': 'https://www.unitedcc.org/media/bssn4rux/about-ucc.jpg'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.unitedcc.org/'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'United Community Center'}

Body Text:
United Community Center | United Community Center
search
facebook
twitter
instagram
phone
envelope
fax
external
Get Involved
Contact
Careers
Main Menu
Community Services
Community Services
For Youth & Young Adults
Head Start Program
UCC Early Learning Academy
Youth & Pre-College Programs
Our Schools
For Adults
Homebuyer Counseling
Substance Use Treatment Program
Intake Assessments
Day Treatment
Outpatient Treatment
Men's Residential
Women's Residential
Pregnant and Post-Partum Women
Recovery Support Coordination
Fatherhood Fire Program
For Older Adults
Adult Day Center
Care Management Program
Elderly Housing
Latino Geriatric Center
Memory Clinic
Senior Center
Café el Sol
Enjoy authentic Mexican and Puerto Rican cuisine Café el Sol!
Café el Sol
Café el Sol
Conference Facilities
Health & Athletics
Health & Athletics
Boxing Program
Student Health Center
César Pabón Fitness Center
Health Research Department
Athletics & Sports
Learn more about how you can become involved in the Boxing Program at UCC!
Learn More
Education & Enrichment
Education & Enrichment
Our Schools
Youth & Pre-College Programs
Latino Arts
Your future is bright at UCC Schools! Enroll for the 2024-2025 School Year!
Register Your Child Today!
Our Schools
Our Schools
Bruce-Guadalupe Community School
Acosta Middle School
UCC Early Learning Academy
Enrollment
Enroll your Child in the Ricardo Diaz Early Learning Academy!
Register Your Child Today!
About Us
About Us
Get to Know UCC
Board of Directors
History
Newsletters
Leadership Team
Success Stories
Join UCC
Contact
Volunteer
Careers
Getting Here
UCC's 54th Anniversary Celebration: Reaching New Heights!
Click here to learn more!
Donate Now
Get Involved
Contact
Careers
Take a Look at the UCC Annual Report
UCC has accomplished a lot this year! View our Annual Report and see how United Community Center is reaching new heights!
View our 2023-2024 Annual Report
Now Enrolling K3 and K4 Students for 2024-2025!
Build a bright future for your child and enroll at UCC Schools! Schedule a personal tour today!
Learn more and schedule a tour!
Spring into a New Career at UCC!
UCC is growing and we're hiring! Apply to join our team today!
Explore Opportunities
Teach Summer School at UCC!
Join our Summer School team! Help our kids stay on top of their school game during our 5 week program. This is a great opportunity for teachers who are looking for a part-time opportunity that leaves their afternoons free!
Apply Now!
Find your Dream Home with our Neighborhood Development Seminars at UCC!
Dreaming of owning a home? The Homebuyer  Program at UCC walks future homeowners through the purchasing process from start to finish. Our dedicated and knowledgeable counselors are bilingual in English and Spanish and will be with you every step of the way on your your journey to home ownership!
Begin your homeowner journey today!
Calling All UCC Alumni!
Are you a graduate of Bruce-Guadalupe Community School or UCC Acosta Middle School and want to keep up-to-date on UCC happenings and special alumni events? Let us know your contact information today!
Submit your contact info:
Supporting Families & Strengthening Traditions Since 1970
United Community Center has been a catalyst for community growth, building, and betterment on Milwaukee’s south side since its founding. What started as a small youth center has grown into an intergenerational safe haven that serves more than 15,000 people each year. UCC serves individuals 6 weeks to 103 years old through educational services, senior support, homebuyer counseling, and much more.
Our Vision
UCC's Vision is an empowered and thriving Hispanic community where all achieve their fullest potential.
Our Mission
UCC's Mission is to transform the lives of Hispanics, families and individuals of all ages by providing the highest quality comprehensive services in education, human services, health, community development and cultural arts.
First Time Homebuyer? We Can Help!
The Homebuyer Counseling Program at UCC offers homebuyer education and  homebuyer counseling to help individuals and families in our community realize the dream of owning their first home. Additionally, we partner with the City of Milwaukee Down Payment Assistance Program -
Find Out More Here
.
Visit our Homebuyer Counseling Page
I am looking to...
Volunteer at UCC
Donate to UCC
Enroll a Student
Get Active
Join the Senior Center
Learn About Substance Use Treatments
Buy a Home
Eat at Café el Sol
Try our menus!
From the Desk of the Chief Executive Officer:
"I am proud to be a part of this amazing UCC family. It has been a challenging yet inspiring year to witness our team filled of passionate and committed individuals making a difference every day."
- Laura Gutierrez, Chief Executive Officer
Learn More About UCC Leadership
UCC Success Stories
Joaquin, Early Childhood Education
"Joaquin is becoming more independent in everything he does. We are very impressed with his speech development and his ability to retain the knowledge he learns in class."
Read Joaquin's Story
Tina, Neighborhood Development Program
“I wake up and I pinch myself, I never thought I would be a homeowner. It changed something in me. I feel better about myself and the future I can provide for my family.”
Read Tina's Story
Isai, Pre-College Program
"The Youth Empowered to Succeed Program at UCC's Pre-College Department has been one of the best experiences of my life."
Read Isai's Story
UCC is proud to be a part of their road to success!
Read More of Our Success Stories!
Community Services
Health & Athletic Services
Education & Enrichment Services
Our Schools
Thank You to Our Partners
With the help of many partners, UCC is close to celebrating 50 years of service to the community.
These partners enable us to accomplish our mission every day.
Stay Current on All Things UCC!
Sign Up for Newsletter
Contact
1028 South 9th Street
Milwaukee, WI
                                53204
(414) 384-3100
info@unitedcc.org
United Community Center
Donate
Newsletters
Getting Here
Careers
Our Community
Latino Arts
Bruce-Guadalupe Community School
Acosta Middle School
UCC Early Learning Academy
Café el Sol
Copyright © 2024, United Community Center, Inc.
Privacy Policy
