Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1', 'id': 'wixDesktopViewport'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Wix.com Website Builder'}
{'name': 'wix-dynamic-custom-elements', 'content': 'DropDownMenu'}
{'name': 'format-detection', 'content': 'telephone=no'}
{'name': 'skype_toolbar', 'content': 'skype_toolbar_parser_compatible'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-Wix-Meta-Site-Id', 'content': '3513c856-aad2-4953-b657-ce78c9dc825e'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-Wix-Application-Instance-Id', 'content': '57de6da9-320b-4ca0-bf8b-e4a2631a3244'}
{'http-equiv': 'X-Wix-Published-Version', 'content': '733'}
{'http-equiv': 'etag', 'content': 'bug'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': 'Learning is different with Wall Street Juniors. Are you ready to expand your knowledge while doing it with a purpose? '}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Community & Economic Development | Wall Street Juniors | United States'}
{'property': 'og:description', 'content': 'Learning is different with Wall Street Juniors. Are you ready to expand your knowledge while doing it with a purpose? '}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.wallstreetjr.org'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'WSJ'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'name': 'twitter:title', 'content': 'Community & Economic Development | Wall Street Juniors | United States'}
{'name': 'twitter:description', 'content': 'Learning is different with Wall Street Juniors. Are you ready to expand your knowledge while doing it with a purpose? '}

Body Text:
Community & Economic Development | Wall Street Juniors | United States
top of page
Home
Our Community
Our Team
Our Programs
Community Wealth Building Program
Entrepreneurship Escape Room
Entrepreneurs Exploration Program
Financial Literacy Labs
HOPE Scholars
Get Involved
Support WSJ
Events
Our Services
WSJ Outlet Mall
More
Use tab to navigate through the menu items.
Log In
BEGIN YOUR JOURNEY
Infants & Toddlers
Children
Youth
Adults
Seniors
It's never too early
At this crucial developmental stage, we believe it's never too early to start instilling healthy financial habits. Through interactive activities and age-appropriate resources, we introduce basic concepts like saving, sharing, and spending wisely. Our engaging sessions focus on building foundational skills such as recognizing coins, understanding the value of money, and practicing simple decision-making. Together, we embark on a fun journey to lay the groundwork for a lifetime of financial well-being.
Equipping teenagers and young adults
Our workshops, discussions, and real-life scenarios, we delve into topics like banking basics, credit management, and understanding student loans. Participants learn essential skills such as creating a budget, managing debt responsibly, and planning for future expenses like college or career aspirations. Our program empowers youth to take control of their financial futures with confidence and resilience.
Empowering young minds
Through interactive games, storytelling, and hands-on activities, we explore topics such as budgeting, goal setting, and distinguishing needs from wants. Children learn practical money management techniques, such as saving for short-term goals and making responsible spending choices. With a focus on fostering financial responsibility and independence, we guide children towards building a strong financial future from an early age.
Achieve financial stability and success.
We cover a range of topics tailored to adult learners, including retirement planning, investment strategies, and homeownership. Participants gain valuable insights into managing their finances effectively, building emergency savings, and navigating financial challenges such as debt management and credit repair. Whether you're starting your financial journey or looking to enhance your money management skills, our program is here to support you every step of the way.
Financial security and peace of mind
We recognize the unique financial needs and concerns of older adults. Our program aims to empower seniors to make informed decisions and enjoy a financially confident and fulfilling retirement phase of life. We address topics such as estate planning, Medicare and Social Security benefits, and protecting against financial fraud and scams. Participants learn practical strategies for managing retirement income, maximizing savings, and planning for long-term care expenses.
Your Contribution Matters!
Support Our Cause: Intergenerational Economic Development
At Wall Street Juniors, we are dedicated to empowering individuals of all ages and backgrounds with the knowledge and skills they need to achieve financial independence and stability. Through our comprehensive financial literacy programs, we provide valuable resources, education, and support to help people make informed decisions about money management, budgeting, saving, investing, and more.
​
Your generous donation can make a meaningful difference in the lives of countless individuals and families in our community. By contributing to our cause, you're not just giving money – you're investing in the future financial well-being of our society.
SUPPORT WSJ
We don't just teach financial literacy; we help you navigate your financial journey, encouraging you to fuel personal and community growth.
Explore diverse programs specifically tailored for urban communities in Durham, NC, and Atlanta, GA. From targeted business consulting for minority-owned businesses to personalized math and literacy tutoring, preparing individuals for life beyond high school, and engaging in intergenerational community wealth-building initiatives. Join us on this journey as we collectively navigate the financial landscape, fostering enduring economic growth and resilience in both individuals and communities.
With the information I learned with Wall Street Juniors I'm going to continue and put it into action, and make sure that everything that I said I was going to do that I do, but also to teach it to my children because those are the ones who will be directly impacted by the decisions I make.
- Jahniece D.
Discover the highlights of our impactful initiatives and the positive changes we've made in our community by exploring our Summer Experience Report.
WEALTH WATCH
Wall Street Juniors in the Press
N.C. woman finds unique ways to teach McDougald Terrace kids positive money habits
Spectrum News
Read More
Wall Street Juniors keeps Durham beautiful with Community InvestFest.
Keep Durham Beautiful
Read More
Wall Street Juniors invests in generational wealth
Triangle Tribune
Read More
About Us
Our Programs
Our Team
Events
Get Involved
Volunteer
Donate
Join a Committee
Become a Partner
Contact Us
Contact Us
Atlanta Chapter
Phone:
404-382-9257
Email:
contact@wallstreetjr.org
​
Durham Chapter
Phone:
919-241-3346
Email:
contact@wallstreetjr.org
​
Connect With Us
Wall Street Juniors Inc. is a 501 (c) 3 nonprofit. All donations are tax deductible.  Tax ID #83-2426624
© 2024
by Wall Street Juniors Inc.
bottom of page
