Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'Content-Type', 'content': 'text/html; charset=utf-8'}
{'name': 'google-site-verification', 'content': 'gVVqStu35k6xvXFdEFk4jzm-dzPPDhDIKVjUKHIQG04'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, minimum-scale=1.0'}

Body Text:
Scholarships and Special Funds < Yale University
Skip to Content
Catalog Home
Institution Home
Bulletin of Yale University
Menu
Search Bulletin
Divinity School 2023–2024
Print/Download Options
Bulletin Archive
Yale University Publications
/
Divinity School
/
Scholarships and Special Funds
Catalog Navigation
Calendar
The President and Fellows of Yale University
The Officers of Yale University
Yale Divinity School Dean’s Advisory Council
Yale Divinity School Alumni Association
Andover Newton Seminary at Yale Divinity School Advisory Council
Trustees of the Berkeley Divinity School at Yale
Yale Divinity School Administration and Faculty
Nature of the Divinity School
Programs of Study
Areas and Courses of Study
Other Curricular Considerations
Standards and Requirements
Library Resources
Admission
Educational Expenses and Financial Aid
Community Life and Services
Fellowships and Prizes
Scholarships and Special Funds
Research and Outreach
Yale University Resources and Services
Enrollment
Graduating Class
The Work of Yale University
Campus Map
Travel Directions to the Divinity School
Yale University Policy Statements
Publication Data
Scholarships and Special Funds
An asterisk (*) indicates a scholarship or special fund that was transferred by Andover Newton Theological School (now Andover Newton Seminary at Yale Divinity School) in 2019.
Scholarships
The Bradford E. Ableson Scholarship
was established in 2008 by Julia Ableson to honor her husband, the Rev. Dr. Bradford Edward Ableson, M.Div. 1985. The scholarship is awarded annually with a preference for students who are postulants or candidates for Holy Orders of the Episcopal Church and demonstrate superior promise for pastoral ministry.
The Harry Baker Adams Scholarship
was created in 1993 by a gift from Frank P. Wendt, charter member and chairman emeritus of the Yale Divinity School Board of Advisors. The scholarship has since been augmented by numerous gifts from other friends, students, and admirers of Professor Harry B. Adams, B.A. 1947, B.D. 1951, who has touched the lives of so many who have attended the School. The purpose of the scholarship is to attract “the brightest and the best.”
The Rev. Dr. Marilyn McCord Adams Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 by the Rev. Christopher T. Worthley, M.Div. 2002, and Christian M. Clough, M.A.R. 2003, for the benefit of deserving students affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
*The Rev. Dr. Paul R. Adkins Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward United Church of Christ students and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The African Methodist Episcopal Church Scholarship
was established in 2007 by Bishop Frederick Hilborn Talbot, M.Div. 1957, and his friends and family to honor him for receiving the YDS “Lux et Veritas” Alumni Award. This scholarship is awarded annually to students preparing for ministry in the African Methodist Episcopal Church or for students from Guyana.
The Henry W. Allis Scholarship
was established in 1890 by Mrs. Emily W. Colton of New Haven as a memorial to her son, Henry W. Allis, of the Yale College Class of 1844, who died in 1841. The income from the fund is to be used to assist needy theological students.
*The Fred W. Anderson ’67 Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward United Church of Christ students and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The Andover Newton Seminary General Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The Sadaichi and Shizue Marian Asai Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Harold and Jan Attridge Scholarship
is awarded annually to students at YDS from any denomination or religious background who display exceptional promise of serving the church either in pastoral ministry or in the academic study of the theological disciplines.
The Charles Atwater Scholarship Fund
was established in 1864 by Mr. Charles Atwater, Jr., B.A. 1834, to benefit deserving YDS students.
The Edward E. Atwater Scholarship Fund
was established in 1867 by the Rev. Edward E. Atwater, B.A. 1836, to benefit deserving YDS students.
The James Averill, Class of 1840, Divinity Endowed Scholarship Fund
was established in 2019 by Kenneth L. Jacobs, S.T.M. 1976, and Elizabeth H. Jacobs, to benefit one or more YDS students and honor military chaplains and other veterans who attended YDS. The fund is named in memory of James Averill (Divinity Class of 1840), who served as a U.S. Army chaplain during the Civil War.
The Margaret Bamiduro and the Rev. Keith A. King Scholarship
was established in 2014 by Ademuyiwa Bamiduro, Esq., M.Div. 2013. The scholarship honors his mother, Margaret Bamiduro, and his teacher and mentor, the Rev. Keith A. King. Preference for this scholarship is given to students from the Baptist tradition, particularly African American students and students from other underrepresented ethnic groups.
*The Baptist Scholarship Fund
is awarded with a preference for Baptist students and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Elizabeth Hunt Barney Scholarship Fund
was established in 1963 in memory of Elizabeth Hunt Barney, former registrar of the Divinity School, by her family and friends. The scholarship is to benefit deserving YDS students.
The David L. Bartlett Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2016 by friends and former students to honor the life and work of Professor David L. Bartlett, B.D. 1967, M.Phil. 1969, Ph.D. 1972. David Bartlett is the J. Edward and Ruth Cox Lantz Professor Emeritus of Christian Communication and the former dean of academic affairs at the Divinity School. Preference for this scholarship is given to promising M.Div. students preparing for ordination to the Christian ministry.
The Elisha Bates Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established by the Rev. Dr. Elizabeth Bates Johnson ’84 M.Div., in memory of her ancestor Elisha Bates (b. 1781, Virginia; d. 1861, Ohio), who was a prominent Quaker minister and social justice advocate in Ohio during the mid-1800s. The fund has a preference for M.Div. women students who self-identify as United Church of Christ or another mainline U.S. Protestant denomination. Eligible students must have demonstrated leadership in social justice issues and exhibit promise for exceptional leadership in ministry focused on social justice education and outreach.
The George and Carol Bauer Scholarship
was established by George Bauer in 2011. The scholarship is to benefit one or more deserving students with demonstrated financial need.
The BDS General Scholarships
were established in 2005 for the Berkeley Divinity School with no further restriction.
The Joseph B. Beadle Scholarship
was established in 1869 by a gift from Joseph Blakslee Beadle in honor of his son, John Beadle, a member of the Yale College Class of 1886. The fund is to be used for scholarship in YDS without restrictions.
*The Ruth Frances Caravalho Beals Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward American Baptist students preparing for ordained ministry and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Howard C. Benson Scholarship Fund
was established in 2016 by a bequest from the estate of the Rev. Howard C. Benson, S.T.M. 1953. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Thomas and Charlene Berardino Family Fund
was established in 2019 by Thomas and Charlene Berardino to provide a stipend for an outstanding student affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
The Berkeley Class of 2018 Scholarship
was established in 2018 on the occasion of the class’s graduation for the benefit of deserving students in Berkeley Divinity School.
*The John M. Billinsky Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward students interested in counseling or psychology and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Birmingham-Drummond Scholarship
was established in 2019 by Jacqueline J. Birmingham to benefit one or more deserving students, with a preference toward students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The Bonita and Oliver Black Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward United Church of Christ students preparing for ordained ministry and students in the Andover Newton Seminary Program.
The Reverend and Mrs. Allen C. Blume Scholarship
in support of outstanding YDS students in need of financial aid was created in 1992 by Allen C. Blume, B.D. 1959, and his wife, Phyllis, as part of the effort of the Classes of the ’50s to raise new scholarship endowments. Members of the United Church of Christ receive preference for this scholarship.
*The John D. and Donna Beth Blythe Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for American Baptist students and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Rev. Stephen M. Bolle Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 by the Rev. Canon Stephen M. Bolle, S.T.B. 1967, for the benefit of one or more students affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
The Rev. Bobby Ray Bonds ’56 and Elsie Clapp Bonds Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2017 by Bobby and Elsie Bonds to benefit one or more deserving students, with a preference toward M.Div. students pursuing a career in parish ministry.
The Richard Borden Fund
was established in 1863 by Col. Richard Borden, father of M.C.D. Borden, a member of the Yale College Class of 1864. The scholarship is to benefit deserving YDS students.
The Charles Minor Boswell Memorial Fund
was established in 1883 to provide scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
*The Franklin A. Bower Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The Edward W. Bradley Memorial Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for second-career students or those with young families, and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Reverend Frederic L. Bradley Endowment Fund (Class of 1924)
was established in 1993 in his memory by his widow, Martha Bradley. The income is to assist students studying for the Episcopal priesthood.
The Clifton Hartwell Brewer Fund
was created in 1949 by Maud Dorman Brewer in memory of her husband. It is to be used for general scholarship purposes at YDS.
*The Henry C. Brooks Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The William Roy Brown and Dora Margaret Wade Brown Scholarship
was established in 1997 by a gift from Helena C. Brown, M.A.R. 1970, in memory of her parents. The scholarship is open to all students regardless of race, color, creed, or denominational status.
*The John and Hilda Brush Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students interested in the history of the Christian church and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Edward Bull Fund
was established by Mrs. Eliza Ann Bull in memory of her husband, the Rev. Edward Bull, a member of the Yale College Class of 1816. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Alice K. and William J. Burger Scholarship Fund
was established in 1985 by the Rev. William Burger, B.D. 1938, and his wife to aid needy students who enter YDS before age thirty.
*The James H. Burns Memorial Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The George A. Bushee Memorial Fund
was established in 1962 by Mrs. Florence E. Bushee in memory of her husband, George Aldrich Bushee, B.D. 1896. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The John and Alice Byers Scholarship
was begun in 1990 by John and Alice Byers, B.D. 1949. The scholarship is for students who are preparing for the parish ministry, with preference given to members of the United Church of Christ.
*The Reverend Raymond Calkins Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Linda S. Campanella Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2021 to provide financial aid to students within the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Canaday Scholarship
was established by Wilbur D. Canaday, Jr., B.D. 1945, to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of his graduation from YDS. Its purpose is to provide financial assistance to needy students who show great promise.
The William R. Cannon, Jr., Scholarship
was established in 1981 to honor Bishop Cannon, M.Div. 1940, for his distinguished service to World Methodism as well as his concern for ecumenical ministry. The scholarship is given by preference to ministerial candidates from any of the World Methodist churches from the United States and from abroad—United Methodist, A.M.E., A.M.E.Z., C.M.E., True Methodists, and Wesleyan.
The J. Fuller and Pansy B. Carroll Scholarship Fund
was established in 2009. The scholarship is awarded with a preference for Episcopalians.
The Cavanagh/Wyper Scholarship Fund in Yale Divinity School
was established in 2014 by George U. Wyper, M.B.A. 1984, and the Rev. Susan Cavanagh Wyper, B.A. 1984, M.Div. 2008, to provide scholarships for students, with a preference for Episcopal students.
*The Central Baptist Society of Thompson, CT Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The Central Congregational Church Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Paul Wesley Chalfant Scholarship
was created in 1989 by Paul Chalfant, B.D. 1947. The donor was the author of
God in Seven Persons—Blessed Multiplicity
.
The Mary Lockwood Brewster Chapman Scholarship Fund
was established in 2019 by Alison Acker Gruseke, Ph.D., M.A.R. 2007, for the benefit of one or more deserving women students affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
*The Edwin O. Childs Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The Robert H. Christenson Memorial Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Susan C. Clarke Scholarship
was established in 1896 by a bequest of Susan C. Clarke of Middletown, Connecticut. The income from this fund is to be used for general scholarship.
The Class of 1950 Scholarship
was established in 1993 by members of the YDS Class of 1950, led by class agents George and Doris Younger, in response to the “Classes of the ’50s” Endowment Drive of 1991–93 and as a lasting memorial of their gratitude to the School. The scholarship is awarded annually to a student needing financial assistance to complete the student’s YDS education.
The Class of 1951 YAF Scholarship
was established by members of the Class of 1951. The scholarship is awarded annually to students needing general financial assistance.
The Class of 1952 Scholarship
was founded with gifts from the Class of 1952 on the occasion of the fortieth anniversary of their graduation from YDS and in response to a challenge from their class secretary, Richard C. Stazesky. Class agent Richard M. Mapes coordinated the fundraising effort. The scholarship is awarded each year to an outstanding student pursuing a Master of Divinity degree.
The Class of 1952 International Student Scholarship
was established in 2002 on the occasion of the fiftieth anniversary of the Class of 1952 to attract and prepare the best and brightest international students. Preference is given to students from Asia, South America, and Africa.
The Class of 1953 Scholarship
was endowed between the years 1991 and 1994 as part of the YDS Capital Campaign. Led by successive class agents Henry K. Yordon and Frank Snow, members of the Class of 1953 created this fund as part of the “Classes of the ’50s” Endowment Drive. The scholarship is to be awarded to students who show both financial need and a special aptitude for theological study.
The Class of 1954 Scholarship
was completed on the occasion of the fortieth reunion year of the class, partly through memorial gifts in honor of the late Clarence Edward Egan, Jr., the class’s longtime class agent, who died during the final year of the effort. Frederic Guile and Rodney G. Snedeker were responsible for the final phases of fundraising. The scholarship is to be awarded with an eye toward assisting those who might encounter special obstacles in their ministries because of their gender, race, or sexual orientation.
The
Class of 1956 Scholarship
was established in 1992 through the Alumni Fund contributions of the members of the YDS Class of 1956 in the academic years 1991–93. Class of 1956 class agent Frank A. Mullen was responsible for bringing together the class’s gifts to create a fund to support a needy student at the School. More than 50 percent of the class participated in this venture.
The Class of 1957 Scholarship
was established as an endowed fund in 2007 on the occasion of the class’s fiftieth reunion in thanksgiving for the education YDS gave to the class members. The scholarship is awarded annually to a student needing financial assistance to complete the student’s YDS education.
The Class of 1958 Scholarship
was created at the time of that class’s thirty-fifth reunion and was their response to the YDS “Classes of the ’50s” scholarship endowment drive. Class agent James D. Hammerlee was assisted by classmate James K. Donnell in achieving the class’s goal. The interest from the endowment is to be used to support a needy student, with preference given to one intending to enter the ordained ministry.
The Class of 1959 Global Opportunities Fund
was created in 2009 by the YDS Class of 1959 on the occasion of its fiftieth reunion. Preference for this fund is given to YDS students studying abroad or to international students studying at YDS.
The Class of 1959 YAF Scholarship
was established by members of the YDS Class of 1959. The scholarship is awarded annually to students needing general financial assistance.
The Class of 1961 Scholarship Fund
was created in 2011 on the occasion of the class’s fiftieth reunion to provide financial aid to YDS students.
The Class of 1963 Scholarship Fund
was established in 2013 on the occasion of the class’s fiftieth reunion for the benefit of one or more deserving students.
The Class of 1964 Scholarship Fund
was established in 2014 on the occasion of the class’s fiftieth reunion for the benefit of one or more students.
The Class of 1966 Scholarship Fund
was established in 2016 on the occasion of the class’s fiftieth reunion for the benefit of one or more students.
The Class of 1967 Divinity Scholarship
was established in 2017 on the occasion of the class’s fiftieth reunion for the benefit of deserving students.
The Class of 1968 Scholarship Fund
was established in 2018 on the occasion of the class’s fiftieth reunion for the benefit of deserving students.
The Class of 1969 Scholarship Fund
was established in 2019 on the occasion of the class’s fiftieth reunion for the benefit of deserving students.
The Class of 1970 Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 on the occasion of the class’s fiftieth reunion for the benefit of deserving students.
The Class of 1976 Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2016 on the occasion of the class’s fortieth reunion for the benefit of deserving students.
The Class of 1985 Scholarship Fund
was established in 2010 on the occasion of the class’s twenty-fifth reunion. The fund will be awarded to aid students demonstrating financial need.
The Lillian Claus Scholarship
was established in 1981 by Miss Lillian Claus of Ridgewood, Queens, New York. Miss Claus, who in 1985 also gave the Claus Chair in New Testament, contributed the scholarship “so that the learned and learning ministry might continue at the Yale Divinity School.” The proceeds from the fund are awarded to needy students planning to enter the parish ministry.
The William Sloane Coffin, Jr. Scholarship
was founded in 2005 by former students who were deeply influenced by Coffin’s ministry at Yale. During his tenure as University Chaplain from 1958 to 1975, Coffin emerged as an eloquent and forceful national leader on issues ranging from poverty in Africa to the civil rights movement and the Vietnam War. One of the School’s merit scholarships, it is awarded annually to outstanding students who show some of the attributes of the legendary pastor’s prophetic leadership, passion for justice, and critical theological interpretations of the contemporary social and political scene.
The Dr. George A. Comstock Fund
was established in 1968 through a bequest of George A. Comstock of Ansonia, Connecticut. The income of this bequest to Berkeley Divinity School is used annually to provide financial aid for students of limited means who are preparing to serve as clergy of the Episcopal Church. The conditions of awarding such financial aid are determined by the Trustees of Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
The Yves Congar Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 and is awarded with a preference for students who identify as Roman Catholic and are pursuing lay ministry.
*The Congregational Church of Interlaken Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students from Massachusetts and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The Muriel M. and Horace C. Conlan Endowed Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Rev. Martin B. Copenhaver YDS '80 M.Div. Endowed Scholarship Fund
was established in 2021 to provide financial aid to students within the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Gordon L. Corbett Financial Aid Fund
was established in 2016 to provide financial aid to YDS students without restriction. The fund was formerly known as the
Reverends George Henry Hubbard, Warren W. Pickett, and Gordon L. Corbett Scholarship Fund,
which was established in 1986 by Gordon L. Corbett to honor three YDS graduates: the Rev. George Henry Hubbard, B.D. 1884; his son-in-law the Rev. Warren W. Pickett, B.D. 1920; and his son-in-law the Rev. Gordon L. Corbett, B.D. 1948.
The William H. Coston Fund
was established in 1938 by the Rev. William H. Coston, B.D. 1886. Preference for this scholarship is given to graduates of A.M.E. high schools.
The Davida Foy Crabtree Scholarship Fund
was established in 2019 by Davida Foy Crabtree, ANS M.Div. 1972, to benefit one or more deserving students, with a preference toward students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Z. Marshall Crane Scholarship Fund
was established in 1936 by a bequest of Z. Marshall Crane of Dalton, Massachusetts, who received a B.A. from Yale College in 1900.
*The Bette Anne and Joshua L. Crowell Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward United Church of Christ and American Baptist students, and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The William R. Cunitz Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students interested in church administration and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The William Alexander Cutting and Arolyn Caverly Cutting Scholarship
is awarded to students interested in health care professions and to support supervised ministry opportunities.
The George Darrow Scholarship Fund
was established in 1931 by a bequest from the estate of George Darrow. Preference for this scholarship is given to YDS students studying for the ministry.
The Arthur Vining Davis Foundation Scholarship,
established in 2006, benefits a student in need of financial aid. The Foundation was created by Arthur Vining Davis, a former president of Alcoa and the son of a Congregational minister.
The Dean’s Scholarship Fund
was established in 2013 by Professor Gregory E. and Adrian O. Sterling. Preference for this scholarship is given to YDS students from Churches of Christ and then to Roman Catholic students.
The John DeForest Scholarship Fund
was established in 1866 by John DeForest, B.A. 1826, M.D. 1829. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
*The V. Eugene and Rosalie DeFreitas Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students preparing for ministry in the field of international mission and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The Elizabeth Anne Dewey Scholarship Fund
is awarded with a preference toward women preparing for ministry in the American Baptist Churches and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The David M. Diener Scholarship
was created in 1991 by Mrs. T. Diener Allen, B.D. 1935. Mrs. Allen, a gifted writer from Carmel-by-the-Sea, California, gave the scholarship in memory of her father. It will be used for general scholarship.
The James Dittes Scholarship
was established in 1996, with a generous gift from an admiring alumnus, to celebrate the career of Professor Dittes, who began teaching at Yale in 1955. The scholarship is open to all students.
The Divinity Scholarships
were established in 2000 through the generosity of various donors to provide scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Divinity YAF Scholarship Fund
was established in 2003 through the generosity of various donors to provide scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Edward Payson Drew Scholarship
was established in 1952 by a bequest of Julia N. Drew as a memorial to her husband, Edward Payson Drew, B.A. Yale College 1891. Annual awards are made to students preparing for full-time Christian service who demonstrate both need and ability.
The George E. Dunham Fund
was established in 1860 by Austin Dunham and Austin C. Dunham, B.A. 1854, in memory of George E. Dunham, a member of the Yale College Class of 1858, who drowned in his senior year. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Jessie Ball duPont Scholarship Fund
was established in 1984 by a gift from the Jessie Ball duPont Religious Charitable and Educational Fund of Jacksonville, Florida. The endowed fund provides scholarship assistance.
*The William H. Dyas Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The William S. Eakin Fund
was established in 1881 by Mrs. Mary E. Eakin in memory of her husband, William S. Eakin, a member of the Yale College Class of 1846. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Alfred S. Edwards and Alice B. Edwards Memorial Fund
was established in 1968 for scholarships for students training for the clergy.
*The Egner/Scalise Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward international students and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Eight Decades of Women Endowment Fund
was established in 2011 at a reunion celebrating eight decades of women at Yale Divinity School. The YDS Alumni Board led the effort to raise the funds, and the scholarship has a preference for women students with demonstrated financial need.
The Henry L. Ellsworth Scholarship Fund
was established in 1860 to support students “needing such assistance and having the settled and avowed purpose of entering the Gospel ministry…who by their proficiency in study give decided promise of future success and usefulness in the ministry.”
*The Natalie E. Emery Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Episcopal Church in Connecticut Scholarship Fund
was established in 2021 for the benefit of one or more students enrolled in Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
*The Charles H. Evans Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward United Church of Christ or American Baptist students, and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Ronald and Janet Evans Scholarship
was established in 2007 by the First Congregational Church of Darien, Connecticut. The scholarship is to honor Rev. Evans’s (B.D. 1970) twenty-two years of ministry as senior pastor of the congregation and will be awarded annually with a preference for students preparing for service in parish ministry.
The Samuel J. Evers Scholarship
was established to contribute to Christian theological education by the Board of Missions and Benevolences of the Union Memorial Church, Stamford, Connecticut, to honor their first pastor, the Rev. Dr. Samuel J. Evers, B.D. 1895, and to commemorate the seventy-fifth anniversary of the church he helped to found.
The Dr. Stanley L. Fawley, Jr., ’72 M.Div., ’74 S.T.M. and Linda Prize-Fawley Scholarship
was established in 2019 by the Rev. Dr. Stanley L. Fawley, Jr. and Linda Prize-Fawley for the benefit of one or more deserving students at Yale Divinity School.
The Fiers-Cook Scholarship Fund,
established in 1981, celebrates the lives of two YDS alumni, A. Dale Fiers, B.D. 1935, and Gaines A. Cook, B.D. 1925. The fund serves also as a memorial to the former Southside Christian Church of Toledo, Ohio. Scholarship awards are made to deserving students who are members of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ).
The Eleazar T. Fitch Fund
was established in 1893 by a bequest from the estate of Mrs. Mary C.L. Fitch in memory of her husband, Eleazar T. Fitch. Eleazar Fitch served as the Livingston Professor of Yale Divinity School (1817–52), a position he filled after it was vacated by the death of Yale College President Timothy Dwight IV. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
*The Edmund and Winnie Fitzgerald Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students from Virginia and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The William H. Fogg Scholarship
was established in 1892 by a bequest of Mrs. Elizabeth Fogg as a memorial to her husband. It is to be awarded to students whom the faculty recommend as evidencing notable character, ability, and scholarship.
The Charles W. Forman Scholarship
was established in 1987, the year of Professor Forman’s retirement from YDS, to honor his thirty-four years of service to the School. Preference is given to a needy student from overseas.
The Joan Bates Forsberg Scholarship
was established in 1993 through the gifts of more than four hundred YDS graduates and other admirers of Joan Bates Forsberg, B.D. 1953, on the occasion of her retirement after more than twenty years of service to the School as an advocate for women and as registrar, assistant dean and director of admissions, and associate dean for students and lecturer in practical theology, and in honor of her distinguished career in social and pastoral ministry. The scholarship is awarded to a student intending to pursue a creative pastoral ministry in a setting other than the parish.
The Orin Fowler Fund
was established in 1863 by Mrs. Mary B. Young in memory of Orin Fowler, a member of the Yale College Class of 1815. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Elizabeth Hart and Donald Hart Frazier Scholarship Fund
was established in 2012 by the Rev. Elizabeth Frazier, M.Div. 1940, through planned gifts for the scholarships.
The Frazier-Young Endowed Scholarship Fund
was established in 2008 by retired Coast Guard Reserve Captain Albert D. Young, Jr., and his wife, Bonnie Frazier Young. It is awarded to YDS students of any denomination who are, or who are training to become, chaplains in the United States Navy, Marine Corps, or Coast Guard. The scholarship honors the Rev. Elizabeth Frazier, M.Div. 1940, and her husband, the Rev. Donald Frazier, M.Div. 1938.
The Thomas F. Freeman Endowed Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 by Andover Newton Theological School to benefit one or more deserving students within Andover Newton Seminary at Yale Divinity School.
The Don W. and Louise E. Frogge Scholarship Fund
was established in 2008. Preference is to be given to students who are planning to enter the pastoral ministry and who come from the Middle West.
*The Edward J. Frost Memorial Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Mary Eileen Fuget-Hayes Scholarship
was established by friends of Mary Fuget (Class of 1956) to honor her memory. One of the first black women to attend YDS, she devoted her efforts to the YWCA and social work. Bernice Cosey Pulley, B.D. 1955, was instrumental in securing the original funds for this award.
The George Gabriel Fund
was established in 1872 by George Gabriel of New Haven, Connecticut, for “needy and meritorious students of the Divinity School who give promise of usefulness.”
The Samuel Templeman Gladding Scholarship Fund
was established in 2015 by Samuel T. Gladding, M.A.R. 1970. The fund has a preference for students who are Baptist and from the Southeastern United States.
The Thomas E. Golden, Jr. Endowed Scholarship
was established in 2013 by a bequest from the estate of Thomas E. Golden, Jr., a graduate of the Yale College Class of 1951. The fund has a preference for students who self-identify as Catholic.
The John S. Goldstein ’75 M.Div. Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2021 to provide unrestricted scholarship support for YDS students.
The Goodman Scholarship
was established by Mrs. Mary Ann Goodman in 1872 to assist “people of my own color” in preparing for the Christian ministry. This was the first gift in the history of Yale University by an African American.
The J. Luke Goodwin Scholarship Fund
was established in 1986 by the First Presbyterian Church of Aiken, South Carolina, as a tribute to their pastor of twenty-three years, Rev. Goodwin, B.D. 1948. Preference is shown for a southern student seeking ordination who demonstrates both financial need and an ability to succeed in the ministry.
The Rev. Dr. John Ogden Gordon and Family Scholarship Fund
was established through the gift in 1986 of an ancestral home in Rensselaerville, New York, by Mrs. Katherine Edwards Gordon Ridgway. The scholarships memorialize not only her grandparents, John Ogden Gordon, M.A. Yale University 1901, and his wife, Emma Ward Bacon Gordon, but also Mrs. Ridgway’s uncle, Alexander Gordon, B.A. Yale College 1904, and her father, John Hamlin Gordon, B.A. Yale College 1913. This assistance is for students who demonstrate both financial need and a clear intent to enter the Christian ministry.
*The Hartley Grandin Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Grant Me the Wisdom Global Women’s Scholarship
was established in 2011 by Debbie McLeod Sears, M.Div. 2009, for the benefit of women from developing countries who are seeking ordained ministry and plan to focus on the needs of the poor.
*The Deborah Webster Greeley Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward students interested in faith, health, and spirituality, and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Robert W. Greene Scholarship
was created in 1988 to honor the thirty-year pastorate of the Rev. Robert W. Greene, B.D. 1946, by the Northfield Congregational Church in Weston, Connecticut.
*The Greenwich Merit Scholarship
is a merit scholarship awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Rev. Rowan A. Greer Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 by F. Lane Heard III, Esq. for the benefit of one or more deserving students affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
*The Benjamin Griffin Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students beyond the New England area and students in the Andover Newton Seminary Program.
The Roger G. Gustafson Scholarship
was established in 2001 with an anonymous gift as an unrestricted scholarship.
The Rev. Alfred Theodore Halsted, Jr. ’56 Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2017 by Rev. Halsted. Preference for the fund is given to YDS students with financial need who self-identify as United Methodist.
*The Hancock UCC Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward United Church of Christ students preparing for ordained ministry and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Joel Hawes Fund
was established in 1860 by William W. House and Calvin Day, B.A. 1857. The fund honors the Rev. Joel Hawes (1789–1867), pastor of the First Church in Hartford for forty-four years and a longtime member of the Yale Corporation (1846–67). The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Peter Hawkins Scholarship Fund
is used to support Yale Divinity students and provide annual living stipends as part of full financial aid awards. Awards are distributed with a preference for students who are interested in the study of literature and religion.
The William Haynsworth Scholarship Fund
was established in 2003 by a bequest from the estate of the Rev. William McCall Haynsworth III, B.D. 1953 from the Berkeley Divinity School. Rev. Haynsworth was a World War II naval veteran and longtime Episcopal priest and chaplain in New York. Preference for this scholarship is given to YDS students seeking advanced or additional graduate degrees.
*The William Randolph Hearst Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward Asian American, Pacific Islander, Native American, African, and Hispanic students, and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Reverend Jacob Hemingway Scholarship
was established in 1936 by a bequest of Arthur F. Hemingway of New Haven as a memorial to the Rev. Jacob Hemingway, B.A. 1704, the first student in Yale College and for more than fifty years the pastor of the Congregational Church of East Haven, Connecticut.
The Jerry W. Henry ’80 M.Div. Scholarship Fund
was established in 2014 by Jerry W. Henry, M.Div. 1980. Henry was president of the Divinity School Alumni Board and served on the Dean’s Advisory Council and the Board of Governors of the Association of Yale Alumni.
The James Hillhouse Scholarship
was established in 1859 by Miss Mary L. Hillhouse. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Albert Hobron Fund
was established in 1902 by a bequest from the estate of Albert Hobron, M.D., of New London, Connecticut. Preference for this scholarship is given to YDS students studying for the ministry.
The Eva F. ’61 M.A.T. and Peter C. Hodgson ’59 B.D., ’63 Ph.D. Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2019 to benefit one or more deserving students.
The Hokma Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 by the Hokma Group, whose members include the Rev. Marilyn H. Jenkins, M.Div. 2018, the Rev. Dr. Marta Illueca, M.Div. 2018, the Rev. Holly C. Hoffmann, M.Div. 2018, the Rev. Margaret E. McGhee, M.Div. 2018, the Rev. Kate E. Ross, M.Div. 2019, and the Rev. Ann F. Scannell, M.Div. 2019. The fund benefits one or more students affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
The Paul L. Holmer Scholarship Fund
was established by friends and former students of Professor Holmer, Ph.D. 1946, in 1987, the last of his twenty-seven years of distinguished service on the faculty.
*The Holt Family Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students interested in pastoral and/or educational ministry and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Mary Wooster Hotchkiss Fund
was established in 1895 by the Female Education Society, an organization formed for the purpose of assisting young people studying for the ministry. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
*The Edith Crary Howe Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students interested in interreligious dialogue and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The Hsu-Tan Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward students from East Asia and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Reverend Mark Hummell ’02 M.Div. and Mr. Peter Christensen Endowed Scholarship Fund
was established in 2018 to benefit one or more deserving students, with a preference toward M.Div. students enrolled in the Berkeley Divinity School program.
The Interfaith Leaders Scholarship Fund
was established in 2018 by Katherine Schubart to benefit one or more deserving YDS students, with a preference toward students participating in international and/or interfaith programs.
The G.D. Jackson Memorial Scholarship and Loan Fund
was established in 1963 by Maurice H. Givens, Ph.B. 1909, Ph.D. 1917, in memory of his father-in-law for the benefit of deserving YDS students.
The Nora McLean Jackson Scholarship
was established in 2007 with an anonymous gift. It honors the life and spirit of Mrs. Jackson and the School’s commitment to a diverse student population. The scholarship is awarded with a preference for African American students.
The Kenneth L. and Elizabeth H. Jacobs Scholarship
was established in 2009 by Kenneth L. Jacobs, S.T.M. 1976. The scholarship is awarded to students who demonstrate financial need. Preference is given to those preparing for pastoral ministry and who are members of either a Christian Church (Disciples of Christ), Lutheran, Presbyterian, Reformed Church in America, or United Church of Christ church.
*The Amal Jadou Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward students interested in interreligious dialogue and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Catherine W. Jarman Fund
was established in 1899 by a bequest from the estate of Catherine W. Jarman, whose son Francis T. Jarman was a graduate of the Yale College Class of 1848. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Jarvis Trust Fund
was established in 2005 by a bequest from the estate of the Rev. Dr. Samuel Farmar Jarvis, a member of the Yale College Class of 1805, and priest and rector of St. Paul’s Church in Boston, Massachusetts. This scholarship is awarded to graduates of Berkeley Divinity School, for the study of ecclesiastical law or ecclesiastical history, and to students of Berkeley Divinity School.
*The David L. Jenks Memorial Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Adam and Julia Joseph Scholarship Fund,
established in 1982, honors the parents of James Joseph, B.D. 1963.
*The Judson/DeFreitas Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Ralph C. Kauffman Scholarship
was established in 2006 by the estate of Ralph C. Kauffman, B.D. 1940. The purpose of the gift is general scholarship for Divinity School students in need.
The Leander E. Keck Scholarship
was established in 2008 to honor the former Winkley Professor of Biblical Theology and dean of Yale Divinity School.
*The Anna Canada Swain–Minnie Emmett Kelley Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The David H. Kelsey and Julie V. Kelsey Scholarship
was established by their family and friends in 2008 and is awarded annually to an M.Div. student intending to embark on a career in Christian ministry. David Kelsey, the Luther A. Weigle Professor Emeritus of Theology at YDS, retired in 2005.
The Bishop Benjamin Tibbetts Kemerer Scholarship
honors the former Episcopal bishop of Duluth, who worked with local Native American Episcopalians in the 1930s. Established in 2006, the scholarship is awarded to students who will receive a Berkeley Divinity School Diploma or Certificate in Anglican Studies, with a preference for Native American students.
The Reverend Anne B. and Richard A. Kimball Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 by the Rev. Anne B. Kimball, M.Div. 1986, for the benefit of one or more students affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
The Bonnie Pedrotti Kittel Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2017 by the Rev. Paula B. Nordhem in memory of Bonnie Pedrotti Kittel, a professor of Biblical Hebrew at YDS and an ordained Presbyterian minister. The fund has a preference for YDS students who show a special interest and aptitude in Hebrew or biblical theology.
The Forrest Knapp Scholarship
was created in 1977 by bequest of Forrest, B.D. 1924, and Helen Knapp. The purpose of the gift is general scholarship.
The James B. Kurtz Scholarship Fund
was established in 2016 by a Charitable Gift Annuity from James B. Kurtz, a graduate of the Yale College Class of 1950. Preference for this scholarship is given to Protestant students from west of the Mississippi River.
The James LaForce and Stephen G. Henderson ’87 M.A.R. Scholarship Fund
was established in 2015 by Stephen Henderson, M.A.R. 1987, and James LaForce to encourage diversity and acceptance within the YDS student body. The award has a preference for students enrolled in the M.A.R. program who self-identify as lesbian, bisexual, gay, transgender, or queer.
The Sam S. and Ima Lou Langley Scholarship
was established in 2005 by Sam S. Langley, M.Div. 1952, to memorialize his wife, Ima Lou, and honor his own many years of ministry. This annual scholarship goes to YDS students, preferably those preparing for ministry either in the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) or in the United Church of Christ.
*The Veronica Lanier Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The W. Douglas, Ruth Hester, and Bernadine Regnell Larson Fund
was established in 2011 by Mrs. W. Douglas Larson. The scholarship is intended to support students associated with the institutions that nurtured or were served by W. Douglas, Ruth Hester, and Bernadine Regnell Larson. Preference is given to women or students considered to be members of a disadvantaged minority.
The Katherine M. and Arthur H. Latimer Divinity Scholarship
was established in 2016 by Katherine M. Latimer, M.Div. 1984, S.T.M. 1998, and Arthur H. Latimer, M.Div. 1998. Preference for this scholarship is given to M.Div. students preparing for ordination.
The Rev. Priscilla A. Lawrence and Patrick J. McLampy Scholarship Fund
was established in 2011 by the Rev. Priscilla A. Lawrence, M.Div. 1990, and Patrick J. McLampy. The scholarship is to benefit students who wish to integrate the study of environmental issues and faith in their professional lives and those who wish to study the cultural and ethical dimensions of environmental problems.
The William Leffingwell Fund
was established in 1859 by Mrs. Caroline M. Street in memory of her father, William Leffingwell, a graduate of the Yale College Class of 1786. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Marjorie Peace Lenn and D. Jeffrey Lenn Scholarship
was established in 2011 by D. Jeffrey Lenn, S.T.M. 1969, and Rebecca Peace Lenn, M.A.R. 2010, in honor of wife/mother Marjorie Peace Lenn. Rebecca Peace Lenn added her father’s name to the scholarship when he passed away in 2017. The fund has a preference for students in the M.A.R. program, especially those committed to a career in public service in the United States or abroad.
The James M. and Kathleen E. Linton Trust
was established in 1964 for scholarships for students at Berkeley Divinity School preparing for the ordained ministry of the Protestant Episcopal Church. These students are to be determined by the dean of Berkeley Divinity School.
The Ruth Lister Scholarship Fund
was established in 2004 by the Ruth Lister Family Trust. The scholarship is to fund students, with preference given to women studying at the Divinity School, especially those having an interest in Christian education and mission.
The Reverend Samuel T. Lloyd III Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 by Silvia M. Gosnell, M.A.R. 2018, for the benefit of one or more students with demonstrated financial need affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
The Harold Long Scholarship
was established in 2006 to provide financial aid for students, with preference given to African American students.
The Sidney Lovett Scholarship
was established in 2007 with an anonymous gift. It honors Rev. Lovett’s service to YDS and to Yale University, where he served as chaplain from 1932 to 1958.
*The Clayton R. Lund Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students from the First Congregational Church (Ridgefield, Connecticut), the Evangelical Congregational Church (Hingham, Massachusetts), the Fairfield West Association, and the Connecticut Conference of the United Church of Christ, and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Leopold and Sigrid Lussier Scholarship Fund
was established in 2016 by Alan Sorem, M.Div. 1966, in honor of his grandchildren. The fund preference is for M.Div. students preparing for the Christian ministry.
The Robert W. Lynn ’52 B.D. and Katharine W. Lynn ’48 M.N. Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2019 by family and friends in memory of Robert and Katharine Lynn. The scholarship is to benefit deserving YDS students.
The Abraham J. Malherbe Scholarship
was established in 1999 to honor Professor Malherbe, who served on the faculty from 1970 to 1994. This scholarship is awarded to a deserving YDS student, with preference given to those from the Churches of Christ.
The George W. Mallory Fund
was established in 1915 by a bequest from the estate of George W. Mallory. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Aaron Manderbach Scholarship Fund
was established in 1982 by the parishioners and friends of Saint Stephen’s Episcopal Church, Ridgefield, Connecticut, to honor their retired rector of twenty-five years. The fund provides scholarship aid for needy students training for the ordained Episcopal ministry.
The Roger and Elizabeth Manners Endowed Scholarship Fund
was created in 2019 in memory of the Rev. Roger E. Manners, M.Div. 1945, S.T.M. 1974, and Mrs. Elizabeth A. Manners to provide scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Robert C. Mansfield Memorial Fund
was established in 1931 by a bequest from the estate of Robert C. Mansfield, a member of the YDS Class of 1926. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
*The Ma
p
le Street Congregational Church Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward United Church of Christ students from New England preparing for ordained ministry as a second career and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Mather Scholarship Fund
was established in 1860 by Roland Mather, a trustee of the Watkinson Library at Trinity College and the Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art, both located in Hartford, Connecticut. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Rev. Jamie Maury and Dan Snyder Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 by the Rev. Dr. Jamie Maury, Ph.D, M.Div. 2014, and Dan Snyder for the benefit of one or more deserving students affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
The Mary B. McCann, M.D. and The Reverend Earl Evans Johnson ’76 M.Div. Endowed Divinity Scholarship
Fund
honors the late public health and psychiatry pioneer Dr. Mary McCann and acclaimed spiritual care provider Earl Johnson ’76 M.Div. The fund was established in 2021 for the benefit of one or more deserving students at Yale Divinity School.
The Allan Morrill McCurdy Memorial Scholarship Fund
was established in 1993 by Elsie G. McCurdy in memory of her husband. The income of the trust is to be used for tuition, books, and other expenses for a graduate of Dartmouth College, a student from New Hampshire, or a student chosen by the Trustees of Berkeley Divinity School.
The Robert McEwen Fund
was established in 1884 by Mrs. Betsy P. McEwen. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The McFadden Family Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 by the Rev. Dr. Cheryl McFadden, M.Div. 2017, and Patrick McFadden for the benefit of one or more students affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
The Andrew B. McGowan and Felicity Harley-McGowan Fund
was established in 2020 by Frances and Steve Rowland and Amy and Jim Elrod, M.A.R. 2017, to provide scholarships for students affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale. The fund is intended to recognize and honor the extraordinary service of Andrew B. McGowan and Felicity Harley-McGowan to the life and growth of the Berkeley Divinity School, Yale Divinity School, and Yale communities.
The David McKinnis ’87 B.S. Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established to benefit one or more deserving YDS students, with a preference toward students participating in international programs or members of the United Church of Christ.
The Memorial Scholarship Fund
was established in 2008 by a bequest from the estate of Mr. William L. Adams, B.D. 1944, and Mrs. Grace Adams. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Samuel Merwin Fund
was established in 1908 by Elizabeth M. Wickham in memory of her father, the Rev. Samuel Merwin, a graduate of the Yale College Class of 1802. Rev. Merwin was the pastor of North Church in New Haven, Connecticut, for nearly thirty years. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Richard and Alice Mezzotero Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2021 to provide unrestricted scholarship support for YDS students.
The Katsuso Miho Fund for Scholarship in Peace-Making
was created in 1992 by gifts from Fumiye Miho, B.D. 1953, and others, especially her friends in Japan, as a memorial to her late brother, Paul Katsuso Miho, B.D. 1943, who was a prominent crusader for peace and justice among nations and persons. The proceeds from this fund are to be awarded to a student in the entering class at YDS who has shown lasting dedication to the Christian pacifist principles practiced by former professors Bainton, Calhoun, Latourette, Luccock, Morris, and Nelson.
The Susan A. Miller and Rudolf A. Hokanson Scholarship Fund
was established in 2015 by the Rev. Susan A. Miller, M.A.R. 1973, M.Div. 1981, and Rudolf A. Hokanson, M.Div. 1974, M.B.A. 1981. Preference is giving to Lutheran students who are studying for the ordained ministry.
The Charles E. Minneman Scholarship
was established in 2009 through a bequest of Charles E. Minneman, S.T.M. 1957. The scholarship is awarded annually to students based on financial need.
The Paul M. Minus ’55 B.A., ’58 M.Div., ’60 M.A., ’62 Ph.D. Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2021 with a preference for students who have expressed interest in the study of eco-theology and environmental studies.
The Michael Penn Moore ’72 M.Div., ’74 S.T.M. Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2017 by Mrs. Cathy Moore in memory of her husband. The fund shall have a preference for students who self-identify as United Church of Christ.
The John (’55) and Lydia (’58) Morrow Scholarship
was created by Lydia Morrow in memory of her husband and in recognition of their many years of ministry together. The annual scholarship may be awarded to defray YDS tuition or the cost of taking part in the Supervised Ministries program in an urban ministry. Preference is given to Protestant students preparing for pastoral ministry.
The Frank A. and Ruth C. Mullen Scholarship
was established in 1998 by friends and admirers to honor the Rev. Frank Mullen, M.Div. 1956, who was the director of development at YDS for thirteen years until his retirement in 1997. The scholarship is intended for entering students, with priority given to those who have applied for admission to YDS within three years of their graduation from college.
The Pauli Murray Scholarship
was established in 2020 by John Boger, M.Div. 1971, and Jennifer Boger, M.A.R. 1971, for the benefit of one or more deserving students at Yale Divinity School.
*The Joseph Hardy Neesima Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Charles Nichols Fund
was established in 1871 by the Rev. Charles Nichols, M.A. (Hon.) 1871, minister of the Gilead Congregational Church in Hebron, Connecticut. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
*The Lucille Nickerson Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward Congregational or United Church of Christ students preparing for ministry and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The William and Lucille Nickerson Scholarship Fund
was established in 1982 to help nurture liberal theology and is one of the Divinity School’s major merit scholarships. Awards are made to full-time students selected on the basis of merit and need. The Admissions Committee selects M.Div. candidates who plan to pursue an ordained ministry. Preference is given to those in the Congregational Church or the United Church of Christ.
*The North Congregational Church of Amherst Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward United Church of Christ students from Western Massachusetts and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The North Congregational Church of Newton Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Henri Nouwen Scholarship
was established in 2010 to honor Professor Nouwen, who served on the faculty from 1971 to 1981. This scholarship is awarded to a deserving YDS student, with preference given to Roman Catholics.
The Gaylord B. Noyce Scholarship
was established in 1996 to honor Professor Noyce, who served on the faculty from 1960 to 1994. Many students and alumni contributed to this scholarship, which is earmarked for entering students.
*The Joseph O’Donnell Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The Ellis ’49 and Helen O’Neal Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Oak Family Scholarship
was established in 2008 by Jeffrey Oak, M.Div. 1985, and Carol Oak, M.Div. 1985. The scholarship is awarded to provide financial assistance to students with a preference for those preparing for ordained parish ministry in the Episcopal Church.
The Marylouise Oates Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2016 by Marylouise Oates, M.Div. 1973. Preference for this scholarship is given to M.Div. women students who are returning to school after other careers.
The Offwell Scholarships
were given by Richard Copleston in thanksgiving for his family’s service to the Anglican Communion. Two scholarships were established with the same name. One scholarship was given to YDS for students preparing for service in the Episcopal Church. The other was a gift to Berkeley Divinity School for the same purpose. Members of the Copleston family served for 163 years as vicars of the Church of England parish in the village of Offwell in the County of Devon.
The Raymond E. Oliver Scholarship
was established in 2009 with a gift from the Raymond E. Oliver and Frances Sutton Oliver Charitable Trust. The gift was made in recognition of Raymond E. Oliver, M.Div. 1952, and his many years of ministry, also in honor of his 55th YDS Reunion, and in memory of the deceased members of the YDS Class of 1952. Preference for this scholarship is given first to YDS students preparing for ministry in the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ) who come from West Virginia or Virginia; and then to students from other Protestant denominations.
The Ronald B. Packnett Scholarship Fund
was established in 2003 in loving memory by African American alumni, friends, and admirers to benefit promising African American students who feel called to ministerial service in African American churches.
The Pardee Trust
was established in 2012 by a bequest from the estate of Ms. Sarah Norton Pardee to benefit students of Berkeley Divinity School.
The F. van Gorder Parker Scholarship Fund
was established in 1988 to honor the twenty-year pastorate of Rev. Parker, B.D. 1954, by the Windsor, Connecticut, First Church (United Church of Christ). Preference is given to UCC students.
The Reverend Ralph W. Parks, Jr. Scholarship
was established in 2004 by his children to honor the Reverend Ralph W. Parks, Jr., M.Div. 1941, S.T.M. 1994, for his commitment to education as a lifelong process.
*The Frank T. Parrish, Jr. Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward North American minority students and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Rev. Bob Paulen Scholarship
was established in 2013 by Rev. Paulen, B.D. 1967. The scholarship is awarded annually with preference for deserving students studying in the Middle East or for Middle Eastern students attending Yale Divinity School.
*The Jane Cary Chapman Peck Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward minorities and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The James W.C. Pennington Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2016 by F. Lane Heard III, B.A. 1973, J.D. 1978, and Margaret A. Bauer, B.A. 1986, M.F.A. 1991. The fund is in memory of James W.C. Pennington, the first person of color to sit in a classroom at Yale. Preference for this scholarship is given to M.Div. students who are preparing for ordination and studying the African American experience.
*The Percy Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Reverend Anthony V. Perrotta Scholarship Fund
was established in 1985 by the proceeds from the sale of the property of the St. John the Divine Baptist Church in New Haven. Rev. Perrotta, B.D. 1920, was the founder and pastor of the church. Income from the fund is to be used to provide scholarships for two students, with preference given to persons preparing for the ministry in the Baptist Church.
The Rev. J. Delton Pickering ’60 Divinity Endowed Scholarship Fund
was established in 2019 by a bequest from the estate of James Delton Pickering to benefit one or more deserving students.
The Pidcock Family Scholarship
was established in 2012 by J. Scott Pidcock, M.A.R. 1982, to benefit students with demonstrated financial need.
The Frank A. and Alison J. Pitman Scholarship Fund
was established in 2007 by Alison J. Pitman in memory of her husband, Frank Pitman, B.A. 1937, B.D. 1940. Preference for this scholarship is given to YDS students from the State of Maine.
The Plymouth Union-Prince Fund
was established in 1978 by members of the Plymouth Union Corporation, Providence, Rhode Island. When the inner-city church had to sell its property, the funds were transferred to YDS to be used for the training of new clergy.
The Clark Vandersall Poling Memorial Scholarship
was established in 1945 by his parents, the Rev. and Mrs. Daniel A. Poling, and his wife, Elizabeth Jung Poling, as a memorial to Chaplain Clark Vandersall Poling, Class of 1936, who was one of the four chaplains of the United States Army who gave their lives for others when a troop transport was sunk by enemy action in the Atlantic Ocean on the night of February 3, 1943. Chaplain Poling received posthumously the Purple Heart and the Distinguished Service Cross.
The Marvin H. Pope Scholarship,
to be awarded on the basis of financial need, was established in 1988 to honor the career of Marvin H. Pope, a member of the Yale faculty from 1949 to 1986.
The Noah Porter Fund
was established in 1860 by Edward Lucas Hart, B.A. 1836, deacon of the Farmington Church, and A.H. Thomson, both of Farmington, Connecticut. The fund honors the Rev. Noah Thomas Porter III, President of Yale College from 1871 to 1886. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
*The Willis Hubert and Frances Bowen Porter Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The Randle Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward married United Church of Christ students and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The James Irving Raymond Scholarship
was established in 2005 in honor of James Irving Raymond, B.A. 1928, an architect known for designing classical houses using contemporary materials. The scholarship is awarded to YDS students in need of financial assistance.
The Edward Reighard Fund
was established in 1980 by Edward Reighard, B.D. 1929, in appreciation for the excellent training he received at YDS. The fund was substantially increased in 1991 from the estate of Mr. Reighard.
The Jason Richardson Memorial Scholarship
was established in 2005 by friends to honor the life of Jason Richardson, M.Div. 2003. Jason Richardson, a gifted preacher and church musician, served as a co-pastor of the Black Church at Yale and as a Marquand Chapel minister. The scholarship is awarded with a preference for African American students.
*The Samuel H. Rickard Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward students interested in international mission work in the Far East or Africa and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Alexander M. Rodger Scholarship Fund,
established in 1975 by the Rev. Alexander M. Rodger, B.D. 1939, is an endowed fund to award scholarship aid to a student or students preparing for the Christian parish ministry.
The David Root Scholarship
was established in 1864 by a gift from the Rev. David Root of New Haven, Connecticut, to assist students in acquiring an education for the gospel ministry.
*The Therese Rosenwald-Hojel Scholarship Fund for International Students
awards a restricted scholarship to international students with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Marcelle Todd Runyan Memorial Scholarship
was set up by the Rev. Theodore Runyan, B.D. 1942, in honor of his late wife. Both Mr. and Mrs. Runyan had parents who were Methodist ministers. The scholarship recipient is to be a student who shows promise of future effective Christian service, with preference given to a United Methodist.
The Harvey R. Russell Scholarship
was established in 2007 by a bequest from the estate of Harvey R. Russell in memory of Katherine Hauschild and Harvey R. Russell, B.A. 1934, M.S. 1936. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Edward E. Salisbury Fund
was established in 1863 by a gift from alumnus Edward Elbridge Salisbury, B.A. 1832, who was the first professor of Arabic and Sanskrit languages and literature at Yale and in the Americas. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
*The Hugh Wiedman Sanborn Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward North American minority students and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The School of Divinity Unrestricted Scholarship Endowment
was established in 1936 to provide scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The School of Divinity Unrestricted Scholarship UFFE
was established in 1976 to provide scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Dr. Jack Alan Scott ’62 B.D. and Mrs. Lacreta Isbell Scott Endowed Divinity Scholarship
was established in 2018 to benefit one or more deserving YDS students.
The Seabury-Walmsley Scholarship Fund,
established in honor of Samuel Seabury and Arthur Walmsley (both former bishops of the Diocese of Connecticut), provides support at Berkeley Divinity School to an ordained Anglican student from Africa, other than a bishop, who is a diocesan leader.
The Sengel Scholarships
were established in 1985 by the Old Presbyterian Meeting House in Alexandria, Virginia, in honor of William Sengel’s twenty-five-year pastorate. The scholarship is awarded to students from developing countries who plan to return to their native lands to continue their ministries.
The Robert E. Seymour Scholarship
was created in 1982 by his son, Robert E. Seymour, Jr., B.D. 1948, to assist a needy student. Preference is given to a Baptist student from the southern United States.
The Walter W. Seymour Fund
was established by a gift of Walter Welles Seymour, B.A. 1832. Proceeds from the fund go to students based on financial need.
The Rabbi Morris Shapiro Scholarship
was established in 2017 by a bequest from the estate of Morris Shapiro ’44 B.A. The fund shall have a preference for students in Jewish Studies or Hebrew Bible.
*The Edward R. Sherblom Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students with an interest in interreligious dialogue and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Ping Teh Sie Scholarship Fund
was established in 1988 by a bequest from Mr. Ping Teh Sie, S.T.M. 1952. Preference is given to Chinese American students, as well as students from mainland China, Taiwan, Hong Kong, and Singapore.
*The David W. Skinner Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Normand Smith Fund
was established in 1861 by Thomas Smith of Hartford, Connecticut, in memory of his son Normand Smith, B.A. 1858. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Richard K. Smith and Harriet Van Riper Smith Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 by the Rt. Rev. Kirk S. Smith, M.Div. 1979, and Laura Smith for the benefit of one or more deserving students affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
The Professor Yolanda Y. Smith Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2017 by friends of Professor Yolanda Smith (1957–2016). Rev. Dr. Smith was a scholar and teacher in the field of Christian education and an ordained Baptist minister. Her work focused on African American religious traditions, including African American spirituals in the heritage of the Black churches, issues in women’s spirituality, pastoral responses to those affected by HIV/AIDS, and public theology for social justice. Preference for this scholarship is given to students with a demonstrated interest in and commitment to African American religious traditions.
The Mary Elizabeth Walton Snow Scholarship Fund
was established in 2000 by a bequest from Frank Snow in memory of his mother to be awarded to a YDS student at the discretion of and according to the policies of the School.
The Society of the Descendants of the Colonial Clergy Endowed Scholarship Fund
was established in 2019 to benefit one or more deserving YDS students.
The Elizabeth B. Sorem Scholarship Fund
was established in 2016 by Alan Sorem, M.Div. 1966, in honor of his daughter. Preference for this scholarship is given to M.Div. students preparing for ordination.
The St. James’ Church Scholarship
was established at the Berkeley Divinity School in 2001 with the intention that two $5,000 scholarships be awarded each year for students preparing for ministry in the Episcopal Church.
The A. Knighton Stanley Scholarship
was established by the Rev. Dr. Stanley, B.D. 1962, friends, and family on the occasion of his retirement from Peoples Congregational Church in Washington, D.C. The scholarship is awarded with a preference for African American women pursuing an M.Div. and preparing to serve in minority communities, economically deprived areas, or the developing world.
The Richard C. Stazesky, Sr. Scholarship
was created in 1991 by Richard Stazesky, Jr., who was for many years the 1952 class agent and afterward served as chair of the School’s Alumni Fund for several years. His pledge challenged many other major donors to follow suit. Methodist students receive preference for this scholarship.
*The Steelman/Gulnac Scholarship Fund
awards a comprehensive scholarship with a preference toward United Church of Christ students and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Stegelmann Family Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 by the Rev. Dawn Stegelmann, M.Div. 2008, and her family members for the benefit of one or more deserving students affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
The Brenda J. Stiers Scholarship,
with a preference for United Church of Christ students at YDS, was established by Brenda J. Stiers, M.Div. 1983. Ms. Stiers was a UCC pastor, served as an adjunct member of the YDS faculty, and was a member of the YDS Board of Advisors.
The Strypemonde Foundation Scholarship,
established in 2008, supports YDS students in need of financial aid. It was funded with a gift from the family foundation of Paul E. Francis, who received his undergraduate degree from Yale in 1977.
*The Katherine Blakeslee Stuart and Burton Baldwin Stuart Scholarship Fund
awards a comprehensive scholarship with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Harriet Amanda Howard Sullivan and William Wallace Sullivan Scholarship Fund
was created in 1985 by a gift from the Second Baptist Church, Bridgeport, Connecticut, to honor forty years of service to the congregation by the Rev. William Wallace Sullivan, B.D. 1938, and his wife. Preference is shown to a financially needy Baptist student specializing in sacred music and theology.
*The Jesse Fox Taintor Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Nancy S. Taylor Endowed Divinity Scholarship
was established in 2016 by the Rev. Dr. Nancy S. Taylor, the senior minister and chief executive officer of Old South Church in Boston, Massachusetts. Preference is given to M.Div. students preparing for ordination who are Protestant and of the Reformed tradition.
The Charles Snow Thayer Scholarship Fund
was established in 1945 by a bequest from the estate of Charles Snow Thayer, B.D. 1895. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Michael Norman Thompson Memorial Scholarship,
created in 2009 with a gift from M. Myers Mermel, is awarded annually to a student or students in the M.A.R. program focusing on the study of the Old Testament and subjects closely related to it. The scholarship is awarded based on financial need and demonstrated classroom writing skills.
The Samuel Arthur Todd Scholarship
was established in 2005 to honor the well-liked student who disappeared from a New York City street in 1984, the year he was due to graduate from YDS. The annual scholarship is awarded to YDS students, especially those from Asia or Africa, who exemplify Todd’s spirit by showing a deep interest in ministries committed to social justice, empowerment, and peace.
*The Gordon M. Torgersen Scholarship
was established by First Baptist Church of Worcester, Massachusetts, in memory of the church's longtime pastor, Gordon Torgersen. After serving as a pastor, Reverend Torgersen was director of church relations at Colgate Rochester Divinity School and president of Andover Newton Theological School. Throughout his career, he was known for his commitment to social justice, his faith in action, his ecumenism, and his skills in pastoral care and preaching. In the late 1960s he hired a Black minister to join his church’s staff to be a minister to the community and urged area industrialists to hire Black people; he stood with student activists during the Vietnam War as an invited speaker and as a leader of prayer; he was the first Protestant to preach at Worcester’s Roman Catholic Cathedral. The scholarship is awarded with a preference toward Baptist students preparing for ordained ministry and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Winston and Lois E. Trever Scholarship Fund
was established in 1985 by the Rev. Winston Trever, B.D. 1937, a class agent of long standing, specifically to aid a needy student preparing for ordination. Since 1985 the fund has grown considerably because of additional gifts from the Trever family.
*The Tripp Friendship Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students affiliated with the United Congregational Church of Middletown, Rhode Island, or the United Parish of Fall River, Massachusetts, or Rhode Island United Church of Christ conferences, and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Ezekiel H. Trowbridge Scholarship
was established in 1894 by a bequest of Ezekiel H. Trowbridge of New Haven, Connecticut.
The Thomas R. Trowbridge Fund
was established in 1863 to provide scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Nelle Martin Tuggle Memorial Fund
was established in 2009 by Clyde C. Tuggle, M.Div. 1988, in honor of his mother, Nelle Martin Tuggle. The fund is awarded with a preference for those who self-identify as Muslim women, women from non-Christian faiths, or women interested in the study of non-Christian faiths.
The Dale E. Turner Scholarship
was established in 1993 to honor the long and distinguished ministry of Dale E. Turner, B.D. 1943. The scholarship is intended to encourage students from the Northwest and, in particular, from the greater Seattle area to attend YDS.
The Henry Hallam Tweedy Scholarship
was established in 1991 by a gift from Mrs. Mary J. Tweedy and her daughters in honor of Mrs. Tweedy’s father-in-law, Henry H. Tweedy, professor of practical theology at YDS from 1909 to 1937. The scholarship is awarded with a preference for Master of Divinity students with exceptional academic records and unusual promise for outstanding pastoral leadership.
*The UCC Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The United Congregational Church of Tolland Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward United Church of Christ students pursuing ordained ministry and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The Félix Varela Scholarship and Internship
was established in 2015 by an anonymous donor to attract Latino/a students to YDS and support them once enrolled. It is named in honor of Félix Varela, a Cuban-born priest who was active in the Cuban independence movement in the nineteenth century. Preference for the award is for Roman Catholic students from Latin America or who are North Americans of Latin descent. The scholarship also includes a paid internship at the Saint Thomas More Center at Yale.
The Janice Vogt Scholarship
was established in 2013 by the Rev. Janice Ann Vogt, M.Div. 1990, to provide scholarships for students with demonstrated need.
*The Joseph A.C. Wadsworth Scholarship
is awarded with a preference toward students in field education and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The James L. Waits International Scholarship
was established in 2000 by James L. and Fentress B. Waits to support the most promising students from developing regions of the world in master’s programs.
The Ralph R. and Ros Warren Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 by the Rev. Ralph R. Warren, S.T.B. 1965, and Ros Warren for the benefit of one or more students affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
The Robert A. Watson Endowed Scholarship Fund
was established by his wife, Charlotte Watson, and friends in 1980 for financial aid for midlife students. It is granted by the dean of Berkeley Divinity School.
The Lawrence G. Wee Endowed Divinity Scholarship Fund
was established in 2016 by Lawrence G. Wee, a graduate of the Yale College Class of 1991. Preference for this scholarship is given to evangelical M.Div. students preparing for ordination and/or students working with the Rivendell Institute at Yale.
The Claude R. Welch Scholarship
honors the former dean of Graduate Theological Union, a 1945 graduate of YDS. Rev. Welch, an ordained Methodist minister and prolific author, also taught at YDS, Princeton University, and the University of Pennsylvania.
The Cassius Welles Scholarship Fund
was established in 1882. Preference is given to YDS students preparing for the Christian ministry.
The John S. Welles Scholarship
was established in 1903 by a bequest of John S. Welles of Hartford, Connecticut. Its purpose is to support deserving students who show both financial need and clear intention of entering Christian ministry.
The Frank and Barbara Wendt Scholarship
was established in April 1995 by friends and associates to honor Mr. Wendt for his many years as a charter member, chair, and chair emeritus of the YDS Board of Advisors. The scholarship will give preference to students who enter YDS within three years after graduation from college.
The Pamela Wesley Gomez Scholarship Fund
was established in 2019 to provide scholarships for one or more deserving students at Berkeley Divinity School.
The Rev. Evelyn Wheeler ’11 Scholarship Fund
was established in 2020 by the Rev. Evelyn Wheeler, M.Div. 2011, for the benefit of one or more deserving students affiliated with Berkeley Divinity School at Yale.
The Joseph Dresser Wickham Fund
was established in 1908 by Mrs. Elizabeth M. Wickham in memory of her husband, the Rev. Joseph Dresser Wickham, a graduate of the Yale College Class of 1815. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The Charles V. and Isobel Wiggen Memorial Fund
was established in trust in 2000, the net income to be used for students enrolled in Berkeley Divinity School who are working toward a degree and who otherwise would not likely be able to attend.
*The Howard Cole–John Wilber Scholarship
is awarded with a preference for sudents interested in counseling, campus ministry, psychology of religion, interfaith relationships, or peace and justice, and students in the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The S. Wells Williams Fund
was established in 1885 by a bequest from the estate of the eminent missionary and Chinese scholar Professor Samuel Wells Williams, M.A. (Hon.) 1877. He was appointed the first professor of Chinese language and literature at Yale College in 1877. The fund provides scholarships to YDS students without restriction.
The William H. Willimon ’71 M.Div. and Patricia Parker Willimon Scholarship Fund
was established in 2015 by United Methodist Bishop William H. Willimon, M.Div. 1971, and Patricia Parker Willimon. Considered one of the top preachers in the world and the author of more than sixty books, William Willimon was the longtime chaplain of Duke University and professor at Duke Divinity School. The fund’s purpose is to encourage United Methodist students from Willimon’s undergraduate alma mater, Wofford College, to consider attending Yale Divinity School to foster interdenominational and regional discussion. Willimon served as a trustee of Wofford College and as a member of the Dean’s Advisory Council of YDS.
The William C. Wilson Scholarship
was established in 1964 in memory of William C. Wilson, a member of the Divinity Class of 1957, by members of his family. The scholarship is awarded annually to a student or students preparing for the Christian ministry.
The Barry and Jean Wood Divinity Endowed Scholarship Fund
was established in 2017 by a gift from Mrs. Jean McCaughey Wood, M.A.R. 1964, in “gratitude for her extraordinary education” at YDS. Preference for this scholarship is given to women students.
The Raymond Lee Wood and Margaret Shiplett Wood Scholarship
was established at YDS by friends and admirers of Ray and Margaret. Ray, for almost a third of a century, was the director of administration at YDS. Preference for this scholarship is given to Methodist or Baptist students from North Carolina.
The William D. Wood Scholarship Fund
was established in 2019 to benefit one or more deserving students in the Berkeley Divinity School program.
The William G. Wurtenberg Scholarship
was established in 1958 by a bequest of Dr. Wurtenberg, Ph.D. 1889, M.D. 1893. It is to be awarded to a member of the senior class who demonstrates character, leadership qualities, and promise of future usefulness.
The Rev. Ben F. Wyland Scholarship Fund
was established in 1982 to celebrate the ministry of Ben F. Wyland, B.D. 1908, a champion of the rights of the poor, the elderly, and the disenfranchised. Its purpose is to train young ministers to carry forward the principles of righteousness and service evidenced in his life.
Special Funds
*The Samuel Abbot Professorship Fund
supports the Samuel Abbot Professorship.
*The Andover Newton Seminary Unrestricted Endowment Fund
supports the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The Gabriel Fackre ANS Dean’s Discretionary Fund
supports the Andover Newton Seminary program at the discretion of the Andover Newton Seminary dean.
*The Wayne R. Frigard Memorial Fund for Continuing Education
supports continuing education in the areas of social justice and peace, human and gay rights, economic justice, and ecology and environmental justice, with a priority for environmental justice.
The Hall Kieschnick Family Internship Fund
was created in 2011 by the Rev. Frances Hall Kieschnick, a member of the Yale College Class of 1975 and a former member of the YDS Dean’s Advisory Council. The fund supports students in internship experiences in not-for-profit organizations or in parishes with a deep commitment to social justice ministries.
*The Koinonia Award Fund Prize
supports Jonathan Edwards Prizes, which are awarded to new inductees of the Jonathan Edwards Society, Andover Newton's honors association.
The McDonald Agape Professor of New Testament and Early Christianity Fund
was established in 2019 and supports the professorship at YDS. The purpose of the professorship is to assure and maintain YDS as the premier place for the study of New Testament and Early Christianity.
The Eleanor Lee McGee and Gaylord Brewster Noyce Endowment in Pastoral Studies Fund
was established in 1994. The fund supports field-based learning under trained pastoral supervisors for divinity students who are directly engaged in the churches’ ministries.
The Paul M. Minus ’55 B.A., ’58 M.Div., ’60 M.A., ’62 Ph.D. Environmental Justice Fund
was established in 2021 to support the YDS environmental justice initiative.
*The William E. Nutting Memorial Fund
supports the promotion of interfaith/multicultural dialogue and programming through seminars, lectures, and symposia.
*The Ellis E. O’Neal, Jr. Library Fund
supports the purchase of books and periodicals for the Andover Newton Seminary program.
*The Oscar W. Olsen Memorial Library Fund
supports collections materials for the Andover Newton Seminary program.
The H. Boone and Violet Porter Fund
was established in 2011 by the Rev. Canon Nicholas T. Porter, B.A. 1986, M.Div. 1994, in memory of his parents. This fund supports studies in religion and environmental stewardship at Berkeley Divinity School
The Letty M. Russell Travel Seminar Fund,
established in 2007, honors the late YDS professor, feminist theologian, and ecumenist. The fund provides support for YDS students taking part in the international travel seminar program launched by Rev. Russell at the School in 1981.
*The Simpson-Hewett Lecture Fund
supports an annual Simpson-Hewett Lecture.
*The Telfer Sinclair Field Education Endowment Fund
supports programs and activities related to field education.
The Rev. Dr. Samuel N. Slie Internship Fund,
established in 1995, supports a YDS student who is seeking ordination in the United Church of Christ and is interning at New Haven’s Battell Chapel. The gift honors the distinguished career of the Rev. Dr. Sam Slie, M.Div. 1952, S.T.M. 1963, in ministry, higher education, and community service.
The Yale Divinity School Travel Fellowship Fund,
created in 2009, supports YDS students wishing to travel as they pursue study, work, travel, or research opportunities. Preference is given to students traveling to the Middle East, Palestine, or Israel.
Yale
Accessibility at Yale
Privacy policy
Copyright ©2023 Yale University
All rights reserved
Contact Us
Facebook
Twitter
YouTube
Sina Weibo
Tumblr
Close this window
Print Options
Send Page to Printer
Print this page.
Download Page (PDF)
The PDF will include all information unique to this page.
Download 2022-2023 Divinity PDF
