Meta Information:
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge,chrome=1'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'http-equiv': 'Accept-CH', 'content': 'Sec-CH-UA-Platform-Version, Sec-CH-UA-Model'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Jesus Christ’s CEOs'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Windows of Heaven Ministries '}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://jcceos.com/about'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'itemprop': 'name', 'content': 'Windows of Heaven Ministries '}
{'itemprop': 'url', 'content': 'https://jcceos.com/about'}
{'name': 'twitter:title', 'content': 'Windows of Heaven Ministries '}
{'name': 'twitter:url', 'content': 'https://jcceos.com/about'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, minimum-scale=1.0'}

Body Text:
Windows of Heaven Ministries
Business Owners Only
0
Skip to Content
About
Windows of Heaven
Bible Institute
Community
Application
JC CEOs TV
Prayer
Login
Donate
Open Menu
Close Menu
Donate
About
Windows of Heaven
Bible Institute
Community
Application
JC CEOs TV
Prayer
Login
Open Menu
Close Menu
Folder:
About
Back
Windows of Heaven
Bible Institute
Community
Application
JC CEOs TV
Prayer
Login
Donate
What is Windows of Heaven
Jesus’ Storehouse?
Get to know the vision, mandate, and foundational aspects of Windows of Heaven Jesus’ Storehouse and JC CEOs.
Windows of Heaven Original
Vision
Immediately after making a written
covenant
with Jesus Christ, God Holy Spirit gave vision and a command to Leray Heyne to establish a Storehouse for Jesus Christ, His Companies, and His CEOs. This is why Windows of Heaven is called Jesus' Storehouse. And business owners who live in covenant and have
consecrated
their company's to the Lord are named; Jesus Christ's CEOs® or JC CEOs®. (est. 2001) (Malachi 3:6–12)
Jesus’ Supplies
HIS
Companies
“And I will give you shepherds according to
My
heart,
who will
feed
you with knowledge and understanding.”
(Jeremiah 3:15)
Windows of Heaven Jesus’ Storehouse participates with God Holy Spirit governance, supplying priestly, spiritual, and biblical teaching for Jesus’s consecrated Companies
(business assemblies/ekklesia).
Ephesians 4:11–13)
Truth
Jesus has storehouses, with treasuries, in His kingdom (Deuteronomy 28:12). Jesus’ Storehouses contain resources that supply His kingdom and fulfill His’ purposes (will) on earth as it is in heaven. (1 Chronicles 28:12, Psalm 33:7, Jeremiah 10:13)
Windows of Heaven
Mandate
Restore! in all nations, the PREEMINENCE of JESUS CHRIST in business, also known as their public squares of business. Colossians 1:15–18
Jesus Christ's CEOs® are called business owners who have been equipped, counted the costs, and have forsaken all to habitually live in
covenant
as authentic disciples of Jesus Christ through communion
(participation)
with God Holy Spirit. (Luke 14:25–33, Galatians 2:20). In addition, JC CEOs have been equipped, counted the cost, and have forsaken all by
consecrating
their company and operating them as business entities of the kingdom of Christ on earth through their participation with God Holy Spirit’s governance. (2 Corinthians 6:17–18, Galatians 5:25)
What Are JC CEOs®
Covenant Partners
?
What is an Authentic
Kingdom Company
?
Jesus Christ’s CEOs Bible Institute Definition: "An Authentic Kingdom Company is the presence of the Spirit of Jesus Christ reigning in glory, honor, and dominion in the whole community of a business's sphere of influence!” The Ultimate Unfair Competitive Advantage!™
Jesus’ Companies
Increases
CEOs/owners, covenant partners of Christ who operate consecrated companies belonging to Jesus Christ, honor Jesus by giving Cesar what belongs to Cesar and to Jesus what belongs to Jesus. (Mark 12:17, Malachi 3:10)
Willing
Hearts
“
Speak to the children of Israel, that they bring
Me
an offering. From everyone who gives it
willingly
with his
heart
you shall take
My offering
.”
(Exodus 25:2)
Windows of Heaven Jesus’ Storehouse receives “Jesus’ Companies” monthly increases
(firstfruits, tithes, and offerings)
from His CEOs who bring them with a
willing heart
“into Jesus’ Storehouse” monthly. (Proverbs 3:9–10, Malachi 3:10)
Jesus’ Storehouse
Cost
Jesus has always given and never taken from anyone!! Windows of Heaven Jesus’ Storehouse has operated in this manner for 23 years—for example, JC CEOs bible institute training and professional media, among others, are FREE ministries. However, as Jesus’ storehouse ministries are offered at no charge, they certainly are not free to create, produce, inventory, distribute, and maintain. The real dollars that are required to offer these resources for free are paid for by Jesus’ consecrated companies
(firstfruits, tithes, and offerings)
that are brought into Jesus’ Storehouse on a monthly basis by the
willing hearts
of
“His CEOs!
” Exodus 25:2
LET US BE
CLEAR
Windows of Heaven Jesus’ Storehouse trusts God Holy Spirit, sanctification, and timing in giving CEOs a
willing hear
t. (1 Samuel 10:9, Ezekiel 36:26)
With that as our practice: “All companies are welcome,” and companies,
firstfruits, tithes, and offerings
are NOT a requirement
to add your company to Windows of Heaven Jesus’ Storehouse.
Company owners welcome to Jesus’ Storehouse.
Apply Now
Statement of Faith
Institute Login
Prayer Request
Contact
Invite JC CEOs
Religious Freedom
RESOURCES
About
Windows of Heaven
Our Team
Leray Heyne
Statement of Faith
Road To Ordination
CONTACT
Windows of Heaven Jesus’ Storehouse mandate is to restore in all nations the preeminence of Jesus Christ in business. Colossians 1:15–18
PO Box 27154
Anaheim Hills, CA 92809
© 2021–2024 Windows of Heaven. All Rights Reserved.
Windows of Heaven Inc. is a California nonprofit corporation exempt from taxation under Section 501c of the Internal Revenue Code. All contributions are tax-deductible as allowed by law.
WOH Donor Privacy Policy: Windows of Heaven never shares or sells a donor's personal information with anyone else, nor sends donor mailings on behalf of other organizations. WOH only shares personal information if the donor has given specific permission to do so.
Privacy Policy
Windows of Heaven
Bible Institute
Community
Application
JC CEOs
