Meta Information:
{'charset': 'UTF-8'}
{'name': 'description', 'content': ''}
{'name': 'keywords', 'content': ''}
{'http-equiv': 'X-UA-Compatible', 'content': 'IE=edge'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'max-image-preview:large'}
{'content': 'Divi v.4.25.1', 'name': 'generator'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 6.5.3'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'Site Kit by Google 1.126.0'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0, maximum-scale=1.0, user-scalable=0'}

Body Text:
Wiser Girls Kenya – Empowering Girls Through Wholistic Health and Education
Welcome
Home
About
About WISER
Our Impact
Wiser Leadership Team
Partners
Wiser’s Funders
Partner Schools
Donate
WISER Blog
School News & Events
Contact
Thank you Madame Dorcas
Select Page
WISER believes that educating girls
changes the world.
WISER empowers girls and communities through transformative education and wholistic health.
Follow
Follow
Follow
Follow
WISER believes that educating girls
changes the world.
WISER empowers girls and the hardest to reach communities through transformative education and (w)holistic health
Make a Donation
Follow
Follow
Follow
Follow
Our Mission
The Women’s Institute for Secondary Education and Research (WISER) empowers girls and communities through transformative education and wholistic health. Our community-engaged, girl-centered interventions help girls transcend poverty, HIV risk, and gender-based violence.
Our 10 acre campus is in Muhuru Bay, Kenya, a remote village on the shores of Lake Victoria, where gender inequity is inextricably linked with health, socioeconomic status, and education. Girls from similar communities across Kenya come to WISER to live, learn, and thrive on our campus and in our programs.
OUR GOAL?
To be a hub for excellence and outreach in one of the hardest-to-reach areas of Kenya while creating impact for thousands of girls and their communities.
Download Our 2023 Info Booklet
Learn more about our WISER girls
WISER empowers girls and communities through transformative education and wholistic health
Empower a Girl
The Highest Outcomes for the Hardest to Reach Girls
people have access to clean water because of WISER
students have enrolled at WISER, and we have a greater than 99% graduation rate
school days saved due to menstrual Hygiene product access
See more ways WISER impacts the lives of girls in rural Kenya and the Muhuru Bay Community
Honoring Our
Everyday Heroes
The Dorcas Oyugi Scholarship Fund is a give-back initiative by the former Principal of WISER, Madam Dorcas, as she celebrates her 14 years of service to WISER. During this period the girls’ enrollment at WISER grew from 30 – 240 students annually with alumni base of 370 who gained rare opportunity to thrive.
Dorcas Oyugi Scholarship fund for the Girls of Promise is set to target girls that demonstrate high potential in academics and leadership skills. The fund will support tuition fee for
30 girls
through raising
KES 3.1 million-which is approximately $20,700.
In addition to honoring Madame Dorcas, we’d like to give a nod to all of the female heroes in our lives. With your donation to WISER this holiday season, we ask that you dedicate your contribution to a special woman who has made a difference in your life-or in the lives of others. With your dedication you will receive a beautiful commemorative certificate to share as a gift, in addition to a card thanking your hero for the role that she has played in your life. She will also be featured on a banner that will be hung at the school so that your hero can serve as inspiration to our girls.
When making a donation, please make sure that you contact
[email protected]
with why you have selected your hero and her address.
Your hero can be anyone-and we encourage WISER Alumni and those who have visited the WISER campus to consider a woman they were inspired by while in Kenya-we’ll make sure they receive a dedication as well.
Donate & Honor Your Hero HERE
News & Updates
On the Blog
WISER Alum Earns 1st Honours at University
Wiser Alumni Ms. Lazarus Josephine Beatrice earns a First Class Honours degree in Bachelor of Science in Marine Biology and Fisheries from Pwani...
read more
My Duke Engage Experience
Faith Francis receiving the award for being the best candidate in Computer studies subject.My WISER Experience I first learned about WISER from...
read more
Read more news & updates on our blog >
Stay up-to-date on all WISER news, events, and information by following us on social media:
Follow
Follow
Follow
Follow
Join Our Newsletter
Thank you for subscribing!
Name
Email
Subscribe Now
“I want to mentor others, act as a role model, speak to people, and help people the way I was helped. To see something in others that they cannot see.”
– Mercy Adhiambo
WISER Class of 2014
“I want to specialize mainly in surgery, because it’s not something a normal doctor does. It’s something you have to study. And only a few surgeons are women, I want to be one of them.”
– Linah Samrah
WISER Class of 2018
“I think it’s good for WISER alumni to give back. We are supporting others so that they can rise up, the same way we rose up because of support from others.”
– Winnie Bellah
WISER Class of 2014
“Here in Muhuru Bay, we are the school which is supplying the SRH to people. There is no other school doing that.”
– Beatrice
WISER Class of 2019
Thank You
to Our Partners, Donors, and Funders
Become a Partner
2022 Annual Report
2021 Annual Report
2023 Information Booklet
Address
PO Box 28 – 4049, Muhuru Bay, Kenya
Email
[email protected]
DONATE
Donate Now
For US Contact and Inquiries:
(U.S.) WISER INTERNATIONAL 2608 Erwin Rd Suite 148 - #107 Durham, NC 27705
(919) 724-8552
[email protected]
Follow
Follow
Follow
Follow
© 2023 WISER Girls International all rights reserved
