Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1'}
{'name': 'robots', 'content': 'index, follow, max-image-preview:large, max-snippet:-1, max-video-preview:-1'}
{'property': 'og:locale', 'content': 'en_US'}
{'property': 'og:type', 'content': 'website'}
{'property': 'og:title', 'content': 'Homepage - Brooklyn Navy Yard'}
{'property': 'og:url', 'content': 'https://www.brooklynnavyyard.org/'}
{'property': 'og:site_name', 'content': 'Brooklyn Navy Yard'}
{'property': 'article:modified_time', 'content': '2024-05-06T17:45:29+00:00'}
{'name': 'twitter:card', 'content': 'summary_large_image'}
{'name': 'generator', 'content': 'WordPress 6.4.1'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileImage', 'content': 'https://www.brooklynnavyyard.org/wp-content/uploads/2023/08/Emoticon-Image.jpg'}

Body Text:
Homepage - Brooklyn Navy Yard
Skip to content
About
Who We Are
Meet our Executives
Board of Directors
Corporate Documents
Visit
Directions + Maps
Exhibitions + Installations
Programs + Tours
School + Teacher
Private Events + Film Shoots
Public Spaces
Leasing
Why Lease at the Yard?
Leasing Opportunites
Incentives
Current Developments + Master Plan
Yard Businesses
Meet our Businesses
Shop our Businesses
Hiring Support
Yard Labs
Jobs
Jobs w/Yard Businesses
Jobs w/BNYDC
Internship Opportunities
Contract Opportunities
Training Opportunities
Media
Media Center
Archives
History of the Yard
A place to build your future
About us
The Brooklyn Navy Yard is the center of urban manufacturing and innovation. A one-of-a-kind ecosystem housing 500+ businesses over 300 acres. With a legacy dating back to the early 1800s, the Brooklyn Navy Yard has played a pivotal role in shaping American history, from its origins as a naval shipyard to its transformation into a dynamic industrial park.
Who We Are
Development Opportunities
The Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation is currently welcoming creative proposals to develop a unique, 2.75-acre waterfront site for clean energy use or the production of technology to address climate change.
Learn More
Join the yard
Leasing at the Brooklyn Navy Yard presents an exceptional opportunity for businesses seeking a thriving and supportive environment. The Yard offers an array of compelling economic development incentives, making it an attractive choice for companies looking to establish or expand their operations.
Why Lease at the Yard?
Visit us
The Yard has more opportunities for public access than ever. Building 77 and Building 92 offer tours, Brooklyn-made food, and a view of modern manufacturing in action.
Plan your visit
Upcoming events
May 18
Design Day at the Brooklyn Navy Yard
Home to thousands of designers and innovators, the Brooklyn Navy Yard’s 300-acre campus welcomes design enthusiasts from all over the world. For the 2024 NYCxDESIGN Festival, the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation and its partners present a series of events celebrating design.
Learn More
Stay up-to-date with the Yard
Get Updates
Sign up here to stay up-to-date with our public programs and events happening on the Yard.
If you work at the Yard and are interested in receiving our tenant newsletter, please email
businessservices@bnydc.org
Email
Name
First
Last
CAPTCHA
Directions & Map
Internships
Development of the Yard
Tenant Directory
Corporate Documents
Jobs at BNYDC
Available Spaces
Privacy Policy
About
BNYDC’s mission is to fuel New York City’s economic vitality by creating and preserving quality jobs, growing the City’s modern industrial sector and its businesses, and connecting the local community with the economic opportunity and resources of the Yard.
Contact
Building 77
141 Flushing Avenue, Suite 801
Brooklyn, NY 11205
info@bnydc.org
718-907-5900 (phone)
718-643-9296 (fax)
Connect
@bklynnavyyard
@bklynnavyyard
/brooklynnavyyard
Brooklyn Navy Yard
We use cookies on our website to give you the most relevant experience by remembering your preferences and repeat visits. By clicking “Accept”, you consent to the use of ALL the cookies. However you may visit Cookie Settings to provide a controlled consent.
Cookie settings
ACCEPT
Manage consent
Close
Privacy Overview
This website uses cookies to improve your experience while you navigate through the website. Out of these cookies, the cookies that are categorized as necessary are stored on your browser as they are essential for the working of basic functionalities of the website. We also use third-party cookies that help us analyze and understand how you use this website. These cookies will be stored in your browser only with your consent. You also have the option to opt-out of these cookies. But opting out of some of these cookies may have an effect on your browsing experience.
Necessary
Necessary
Always Enabled
Necessary cookies are absolutely essential for the website to function properly. These cookies ensure basic functionalities and security features of the website, anonymously.
Cookie
Duration
Description
cookielawinfo-checkbox-analytics
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Analytics".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-functional
11 months
The cookie is set by GDPR cookie consent to record the user consent for the cookies in the category "Functional".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-necessary
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookies is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Necessary".
cookielawinfo-checkbox-others
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Other.
cookielawinfo-checkbox-performance
11 months
This cookie is set by GDPR Cookie Consent plugin. The cookie is used to store the user consent for the cookies in the category "Performance".
viewed_cookie_policy
11 months
The cookie is set by the GDPR Cookie Consent plugin and is used to store whether or not user has consented to the use of cookies. It does not store any personal data.
Functional
functional
Functional cookies help to perform certain functionalities like sharing the content of the website on social media platforms, collect feedbacks, and other third-party features.
Performance
performance
Performance cookies are used to understand and analyze the key performance indexes of the website which helps in delivering a better user experience for the visitors.
Analytics
analytics
Analytical cookies are used to understand how visitors interact with the website. These cookies help provide information on metrics the number of visitors, bounce rate, traffic source, etc.
Advertisement
advertisement
Advertisement cookies are used to provide visitors with relevant ads and marketing campaigns. These cookies track visitors across websites and collect information to provide customized ads.
Others
others
Other uncategorized cookies are those that are being analyzed and have not been classified into a category as yet.
Save & Accept
