Meta Information:
{'charset': 'utf-8'}
{'name': 'Generator', 'content': 'Drupal 10 (https://www.drupal.org)'}
{'name': 'MobileOptimized', 'content': 'width'}
{'name': 'HandheldFriendly', 'content': 'true'}
{'name': 'viewport', 'content': 'width=device-width, initial-scale=1.0'}
{'name': 'msapplication-TileColor', 'content': '#2d89ef'}
{'name': 'msapplication-config', 'content': '/themes/custom/cos/favicons/browserconfig.xml'}
{'name': 'theme-color', 'content': '#ffffff'}

Body Text:
Youth Sports | City of Colorado Springs
Skip to main content
Menu
Search
Search
Search terms
GoCOS! Contact Us
City Code, Charter
Accessibility
Now
67
°
High
67
°
Low
44
°
Youth Sports
Main content
Home
Youth Sports
Free Youth Sports Program
Soccer
T-Ball, Baseball & Softball
Football
Boxing / Judo
Golf
Lacrosse
Springs Tennis
Sports Camps
Coaches info
Upload File
2024 Sports Calendar
Mission Statement
In pursuit of excellence in youth sports, we are committed to creating a positive environment for our youth’s participation in and enjoyment of recreational sports.
Program Philosophy
The City of Colorado Springs Parks, Recreation and Cultural Services Department Youth Sports Program philosophy is to instill a positive attitude, sportsmanship, basic fundamentals, confidence, and high moral standards.  Youth Sports Programs develop the physical, psychological, and social aspects for youth.  Our programs emphasize participation, fun, sportsmanship, and promotes a non-competitive, recreational approach to sports.  Participants, parents, and coaches are expected to support this value system.
The City of Colorado Springs Youth Sports programs are designed to offer participants a variety of recreational sports leagues and activities in a safe, fun and well-supervised environment. We focus on the whole child through positive coaching, teamwork, sportsmanship, skill development, self-development, self-esteem, and socialization skills. Sports provides recreational activities to enhance and build positive recreational experiences and healthy lifelong habits. Youth Sports offers opportunities to play in leagues throughout the year. Because programs are so large, we register participants one to two months in advance.
Spring Soccer: Pre K-9 grade
Spring Tackle Football: 3-8 grade (2nd graders can sign a waiver)
Summer T-ball, Baseball, Softball: Pre K-12 grade
Fall  Tackle Football: 3-8 grade (2nd graders can sign a waiver)
Fall Soccer: Pre K-9 grade
Basic Rentals Guidelines
Children's Bill of Rights
The City of Colorado Springs Olympic City USA has adopted the Children’s Bill of Rights in Sports for all Parks, Recreation and Cultural Services Youth Sports Programming. Developed by the Aspen Institute through its Project Play initiative, with a working group of human rights and sports policy experts, the Children’s Bill of Rights in Sports Identifies eight rights:
To play sports.
Organizations should make every effort to accommodate children’s interests to participate, and to help them play with peers from diverse backgrounds.
To safe and healthy environments.
Children have the right to play in settings free from all forms of abuse (physical, emotional, sexual), hazing, violence, and neglect.
To qualified program leaders.
Children have the right to play under the care of coaches and other adults who pass background checks and are trained in key competencies.
To developmentally appropriate play.
Children have a right to play at a level commensurate with their physical, mental and emotional maturity, and their emerging athletic ability. They should be treated as young people first, athletes second.
T
o share in the planning and delivery of their activities.
Children have the right to share their viewpoints with coaches and for their insights to be incorporated into activities.
To an equal opportunity for personal growth.
Programs should invest equally in all child athletes, free of discrimination based on any personal or family characteristic.
To be treated with dignity.
Children have the right to participate in environments that promote the values of sportsmanship, of respect for opponents, officials, and the game.
To enjoy themselves.
Children have the right to participate in activities they consider fun, and which foster the development of friendships and social bonds.
Inclement Weather, Closures & Cancelations
For up-to-date information on weather and cancelations, call 385-5981 and select 2. You can also follow the Sports office through
Facebook
for the latest cancelation details.
Sports Internship
The purpose of the internship program is to provide the student with an opportunity to gain practical hands-on experience that is closely related to the student’s educational knowledge base. Youth and Adult Sports believes in a team philosophy and although the intern will be supervised by a designated full-time Sports staff member, the student will have the opportunity to work with multiple full-time Sports staff to understand various leadership styles and programs. In exchange, the City will receive valuable work contributions from creative, highly motivated recreation pre-professionals.
View Sports Intern Information
Download Intern Application
Contact Information
Sports Office
1315 East Pikes Peak Avenue
(in Memorial Park)
Colorado Springs, CO 80909
Phone: (719) 385-5981
Fax: (719) 385-6013
Questions?
Email us
Colorado Springs Weekly
Subscribe to Colorado Springs Weekly, an email newsletter delivering City news, events and updates straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
GoCOS!
REPORT ONLINE
Request services, report issues, improve your community.
Connect with @CityofCOS
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Youtube
See all City social media accounts
Web Accessibility
Non-Discrimination
DMCA Policy
Privacy Policy
Webmaster
Google Translate Disclaimer
Translate
